Connecting the Dots
Once a year Jobs took his most valuable 
employees on a retreat, which he called “The Top 100.” 
They were picked based on a simple guideline: the 
people you would bring if you could take only a 
hundred people with you on a lifeboat to your next 
company. At the end of each retreat, Jobs would stand 
in front of a whiteboard (he loved whiteboards because 
they gave him complete control of a situation and they 
engendered focus) and ask, “What are the ten things 
we should be doing next?” People would fight to get 
their suggestions on the list. Jobs would write them 
down, and then cross off the ones he decreed dumb. 
After much jockeying, the group would come up with a 
list of ten. Then Jobs would slash the bottom seven and 
announce, “We can only do three.”
By 2001 Apple had revived its personal computer 
offerings. It was now time to think different. A set of new 
possibilities topped the what-next list on his whiteboard 
that year.
At the time, a pall had descended on the digital 
realm. The dot-com bubble had burst, and the NASDAQ 
had fallen more than 50% from its peak. Only three tech 
companies had ads during the January 2001 Super 
Bowl, compared to seventeen the year before. But the 
sense of deflation went deeper. For the twenty-five 
years since Jobs and Wozniak had founded Apple, the 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 497
personal computer had been the centerpiece of the 
digital revolution. Now experts were predicting that its 
central role was ending. It had “matured into something 
boring,” wrote the Wall Street Journal’s Walt Mossberg. 
Jeff Weitzen, the CEO of Gateway, proclaimed, “We’re 
clearly migrating away from the PC as the centerpiece.”
It was at that moment that Jobs launched a new 
grand strategy that would transform Apple—and with it 
the entire technology industry. The personal computer, 
instead of edging toward the sidelines, would become a 
“digital hub” that coordinated a variety of devices, from 
music players to video recorders to cameras. You’d link 
and sync all these devices with your computer, and it 
would manage your music, pictures, video, text, and all 
aspects of what Jobs dubbed your “digital lifestyle.” 
Apple would no longer be just a computer company—
indeed it would drop that word from its name—but the 
Macintosh would be reinvigorated by becoming the hub 
for an astounding array of new gadgets, including the 
iPod and iPhone and iPad.
When he was turning thirty, Jobs had used a 
metaphor about record albums. He was musing about 
why folks over thirty develop rigid thought patterns and 
tend to be less innovative. “People get stuck in those 
patterns, just like grooves in a record, and they never 
get out of them,” he said. At age forty-five, Jobs was 
now about to get out of his groove.
FireWire
Jobs’s vision that your computer could become 
your digital hub went back to a technology called 
FireWire, which Apple developed in the early 1990s. It 
was a high-speed serial port that moved digital files 
such as video from one device to another. Japanese 
camcorder makers adopted it, and Jobs decided to 
include it on the updated versions of the iMac that came 
out in October 1999. He began to see that FireWire 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 498
could be part of a system that moved video from 
cameras onto a computer, where it could be edited and 
distributed.
To make this work, the iMac needed to have great 
video editing software. So Jobs went to his old friends 
at Adobe, the digital graphics company, and asked 
them to make a new Mac version of Adobe Premiere, 
which was popular on Windows computers. Adobe’s 
executives stunned Jobs by flatly turning him down. The 
Macintosh, they said, had too few users to make it 
worthwhile. Jobs was furious and felt betrayed. “I put 
Adobe on the map, and they screwed me,” he later 
claimed. Adobe made matters even worse when it also 
didn’t write its other popular programs, such as 
Photoshop, for the Mac OSX, even though the 
Macintosh was popular among designers and other 
creative people who used those applications.
Jobs never forgave Adobe, and a decade later he 
got into a public war with the company by not permitting 
Adobe Flash to run on the iPad. He took away a 
valuable lesson that reinforced his desire for end-toend control of all key elements of a system: “My primary 
insight when we were screwed by Adobe in 1999 was 
that we shouldn’t get into any business where we didn’t 
control both the hardware and the software, otherwise 
we’d get our head handed to us.”
So starting in 1999 Apple began to produce 
application software for the Mac, with a focus on people 
at the intersection of art and technology. These 
included Final Cut Pro, for editing digital video; iMovie, 
which was a simpler consumer version; iDVD, for 
burning video or music onto a disc; iPhoto, to compete 
with Adobe Photoshop; GarageBand, for creating and 
mixing music; iTunes, for managing your songs; and the 
iTunes Store, for buying songs.
The idea of the digital hub quickly came into focus. 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 499
“I first understood this with the camcorder,” Jobs said. 
“Using iMovie makes your camcorder ten times more 
valuable.” Instead of having hundreds of hours of raw 
footage you would never really sit through, you could 
edit it on your computer, make elegant dissolves, add 
music, and roll credits, listing yourself as executive 
producer. It allowed people to be creative, to express 
themselves, to make something emotional. “That’s 
when it hit me that the personal computer was going to 
morph into something else.”
Jobs had another insight: If the computer served 
as the hub, it would allow the portable devices to 
become simpler. A lot of the functions that the devices 
tried to do, such as editing the video or pictures, they 
did poorly because they had small screens and could 
not easily accommodate menus filled with lots of 
functions. Computers could handle that more easily.
And one more thing . . . What Jobs also saw was 
that this worked best when everything—the device, 
computer, software, applications, FireWire—was all 
tightly integrated. “I became even more of a believer in 
providing end-to-end solutions,” he recalled.
The beauty of this realization was that there was 
only one company that was well-positioned to provide 
such an integrated approach. Microsoft wrote software, 
Dell and Compaq made hardware, Sony produced a lot 
of digital devices, Adobe developed a lot of 
applications. But only Apple did all of these things. 
“We’re the only company that owns the whole widget—
the hardware, the software and the operating system,” 
he explained to Time.“We can take full responsibility for 
the user experience. We can do things that the other 
guys can’t do.”
Apple’s first integrated foray into the digital hub 
strategy was video. With FireWire, you could get your 
video onto your Mac, and with iMovie you could edit it 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 500
into a masterpiece. Then what? You’d want to burn 
some DVDs so you and your friends could watch it on a 
TV. “So we spent a lot of time working with the drive 
manufacturers to get a consumer drive that could burn a 
DVD,” he said. “We were the first to ever ship that.” As 
usual Jobs focused on making the product as simple as 
possible for the user, and this was the key to its 
success. Mike Evangelist, who worked at Apple on 
software design, recalled demonstrating to Jobs an 
early version of the interface. After looking at a bunch of 
screenshots, Jobs jumped up, grabbed a marker, and 
drew a simple rectangle on a whiteboard. “Here’s the 
new application,” he said. “It’s got one window. You 
drag your video into the window. Then you click the 
button that says ‘Burn.’ That’s it. That’s what we’re 
going to make.” Evangelist was dumbfounded, but it led 
to the simplicity of what became iDVD. Jobs even 
helped design the “Burn” button icon.
Jobs knew digital photography was also about to 
explode, so Apple developed ways to make the 
computer the hub of your photos. But for the first year at 
least, he took his eye off one really big opportunity. HP 
and a few others were producing a drive that burned 
music CDs, but Jobs decreed that Apple should focus 
on video rather than music. In addition, his angry 
insistence that the iMac get rid of its tray disk drive and 
use instead a more elegant slot drive meant that it could 
not include the first CD burners, which were initially 
made for the tray format. “We kind of missed the boat on 
that,” he recalled. “So we needed to catch up real fast.”
The mark of an innovative company is not only that 
it comes up with new ideas first, but also that it knows 
how to leapfrog when it finds itself behind.
iTunes
It didn’t take Jobs long to realize that music was 
going to be huge. By 2000 people were ripping music 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 501
onto their computers from CDs, or downloading it from 
file-sharing services such as Napster, and burning 
playlists onto their own blank disks. That year the 
number of blank CDs sold in the United States was 320 
million. There were only 281 million people in the 
country. That meant some people were reallyinto 
burning CDs, and Apple wasn’t catering to them. “I felt 
like a dope,” he told Fortune.“I thought we had missed 
it. We had to work hard to catch up.”
Jobs added a CD burner to the iMac, but that 
wasn’t enough. His goal was to make it simple to 
transfer music from a CD, manage it on your computer, 
and then burn playlists. Other companies were already 
making music-management applications, but they were 
clunky and complex. One of Jobs’s talents was spotting 
markets that were filled with second-rate products. He 
looked at the music apps that were available—
including Real Jukebox, Windows Media Player, and 
one that HP was including with its CD burner—and 
came to a conclusion: “They were so complicated that 
only a genius could figure out half of their features.”
That is when Bill Kincaid came in. A former Apple 
software engineer, he was driving to a track in Willows, 
California, to race his Formula Ford sports car while (a 
bit incongruously) listening to National Public Radio. 
He heard a report about a portable music player called 
the Rio that played a digital song format called MP3. He 
perked up when the reporter said something like, “Don’t 
get excited, Mac users, because it won’t work with 
Macs.” Kincaid said to himself, “Ha! I can fix that!”
To help him write a Rio manager for the Mac, he 
called his friends Jeff Robbin and Dave Heller, also 
former Apple software engineers. Their product, known 
as SoundJam, offered Mac users an interface for the 
Rio and software for managing the songs on their 
computer. In July 2000, when Jobs was pushing his 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 502
team to come up with music-management software, 
Apple swooped in and bought SoundJam, bringing its 
founders back into the Apple fold. (All three stayed with 
the company, and Robbin continued to run the music 
software development team for the next decade. Jobs 
considered Robbin so valuable he once allowed a 
Timereporter to meet him only after extracting the 
promise that the reporter would not print his last name.)
Jobs personally worked with them to transform 
SoundJam into an Apple product. It was laden with all 
sorts of features, and consequently a lot of complex 
screens. Jobs pushed them to make it simpler and more 
fun. Instead of an interface that made you specify 
whether you were searching for an artist, song, or 
album, Jobs insisted on a simple box where you could 
type in anything you wanted. From iMovie the team 
adopted the sleek brushed-metal look and also a name. 
They dubbed it iTunes.
Jobs unveiled iTunes at the January 2001 
Macworld as part of the digital hub strategy. It would be 
free to all Mac users, he announced. “Join the music 
revolution with iTunes, and make your music devices 
ten times more valuable,” he concluded to great 
applause. As his advertising slogan would later put it: 
Rip. Mix. Burn.
That afternoon Jobs happened to be meeting with 
John Markoff of the New York Times.The interview was 
going badly, but at the end Jobs sat down at his Mac 
and showed off iTunes. “It reminds me of my youth,” he 
said as the psychedelic patterns danced on the screen. 
That led him to reminisce about dropping acid. Taking 
LSD was one of the two or three most important things 
he’d done in his life, Jobs told Markoff. People who had 
never taken acid would never fully understand him.
The iPod
The next step for the digital hub strategy was to 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 503
make a portable music player. Jobs realized that Apple 
had the opportunity to design such a device in tandem 
with the iTunes software, allowing it to be simpler. 
Complex tasks could be handled on the computer, easy 
ones on the device. Thus was born the iPod, the device 
that would begin the transformation of Apple from being 
a computer maker into being the world’s most valuable 
company.
Jobs had a special passion for the project 
because he loved music. The music players that were 
already on the market, he told his colleagues, “truly 
sucked.” Phil Schiller, Jon Rubinstein, and the rest of 
the team agreed. As they were building iTunes, they 
spent time with the Rio and other players while merrily 
trashing them. “We would sit around and say, ‘These 
things really stink,’” Schiller recalled. “They held about 
sixteen songs, and you couldn’t figure out how to use 
them.”
Jobs began pushing for a portable music player in 
the fall of 2000, but Rubinstein responded that the 
necessary components were not available yet. He 
asked Jobs to wait. After a few months Rubinstein was 
able to score a suitable small LCD screen and 
rechargeable lithium-polymer battery. The tougher 
challenge was finding a disk drive that was small 
enough but had ample memory to make a great music 
player. Then, in February 2001, he took one of his 
regular trips to Japan to visit Apple’s suppliers.
At the end of a routine meeting with Toshiba, the 
engineers mentioned a new product they had in the lab 
that would be ready by that June. It was a tiny, 1.8-inch 
drive (the size of a silver dollar) that would hold five 
gigabytes of storage (about a thousand songs), and 
they were not sure what to do with it. When the Toshiba 
engineers showed it to Rubinstein, he knew 
immediately what it could be used for. A thousand 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 504
songs in his pocket! Perfect. But he kept a poker face. 
Jobs was also in Japan, giving the keynote speech at 
the Tokyo Macworld conference. They met that night at 
the Hotel Okura, where Jobs was staying. “I know how 
to do it now,” Rubinstein told him. “All I need is a $10 
million check.” Jobs immediately authorized it. So 
Rubinstein started negotiating with Toshiba to have 
exclusive rights to every one of the disks it could make, 
and he began to look around for someone who could 
lead the development team.
Tony Fadell was a brash entrepreneurial 
programmer with a cyberpunk look and an engaging 
smile who had started three companies while still at the 
University of Michigan. He had gone to work at the 
handheld device maker General Magic (where he met 
Apple refugees Andy Hertzfeld and Bill Atkinson), and 
then spent some awkward time at Philips Electronics, 
where he bucked the staid culture with his short 
bleached hair and rebellious style. He had come up 
with some ideas for creating a better digital music 
player, which he had shopped around unsuccessfully to 
RealNetworks, Sony, and Philips. One day he was in 
Colorado, skiing with an uncle, and his cell phone rang 
while he was riding on the chairlift. It was Rubinstein, 
who told him that Apple was looking for someone who 
could work on a “small electronic device.” Fadell, not 
lacking in confidence, boasted that he was a wizard at 
making such devices. Rubinstein invited him to 
Cupertino.
Fadell assumed that he was being hired to work 
on a personal digital assistant, some successor to the 
Newton. But when he met with Rubinstein, the topic 
quickly turned to iTunes, which had been out for three 
months. “We’ve been trying to hook up the existing MP3 
players to iTunes and they’ve been horrible, absolutely 
horrible,” Rubinstein told him. “We think we should 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 505
make our own version.”
Fadell was thrilled. “I was passionate about music. 
I was trying to do some of that at RealNetworks, and I 
was pitching an MP3 player to Palm.” He agreed to 
come aboard, at least as a consultant. After a few 
weeks Rubinstein insisted that if he was to lead the 
team, he had to become a full-time Apple employee. 
But Fadell resisted; he liked his freedom. Rubinstein 
was furious at what he considered Fadell’s whining. 
“This is one of those life decisions,” he told Fadell. 
“You’ll never regret it.”
He decided to force Fadell’s hand. He gathered a 
roomful of the twenty or so people who had been 
assigned to the project. When Fadell walked in, 
Rubinstein told him, “Tony, we’re not doing this project 
unless you sign on full-time. Are you in or out? You 
have to decide right now.”
Fadell looked Rubinstein in the eye, then turned to 
the audience and said, “Does this always happen at 
Apple, that people are put under duress to sign an 
offer?” He paused for a moment, said yes, and 
grudgingly shook Rubinstein’s hand. “It left some very 
unsettling feeling between Jon and me for many years,” 
Fadell recalled. Rubinstein agreed: “I don’t think he 
ever forgave me for that.”
Fadell and Rubinstein were fated to clash 
because they both thought that they had fathered the 
iPod. As Rubinstein saw it, he had been given the 
mission by Jobs months earlier, found the Toshiba disk 
drive, and figured out the screen, battery, and other key 
elements. He had then brought in Fadell to put it 
together. He and others who resented Fadell’s visibility 
began to refer to him as “Tony Baloney.” But from 
Fadell’s perspective, before he came to Apple he had 
already come up with plans for a great MP3 player, and 
he had been shopping it around to other companies 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 506
before he had agreed to come to Apple. The issue of 
who deserved the most credit for the iPod, or should get 
the title Podfather, would be fought over the years in 
interviews, articles, web pages, and even Wikipedia
entries.
But for the next few months they were too busy to 
bicker. Jobs wanted the iPod out by Christmas, and this 
meant having it ready to unveil in October. They looked 
around for other companies that were designing MP3 
players that could serve as the foundation for Apple’s 
work and settled on a small company named 
PortalPlayer. Fadell told the team there, “This is the 
project that’s going to remold Apple, and ten years from 
now, it’s going to be a music business, not a computer 
business.” He convinced them to sign an exclusive 
deal, and his group began to modify PortalPlayer’s 
deficiencies, such as its complex interfaces, short 
battery life, and inability to make a playlist longer than 
ten songs.
That’s It!
There are certain meetings that are memorable 
both because they mark a historic moment and 
because they illuminate the way a leader operates. 
Such was the case with the gathering in Apple’s fourthfloor conference room in April 2001, where Jobs 
decided on the fundamentals of the iPod. There to hear 
Fadell present his proposals to Jobs were Rubinstein, 
Schiller, Ive, Jeff Robbin, and marketing director Stan 
Ng. Fadell didn’t know Jobs, and he was 
understandably intimidated. “When he walked into the 
conference room, I sat up and thought, ‘Whoa, there’s 
Steve!’ I was really on guard, because I’d heard how 
brutal he could be.”
The meeting started with a presentation of the 
potential market and what other companies were doing. 
Jobs, as usual, had no patience. “He won’t pay attention to a slide deck for more than a minute,” Fadell 
said. When a slide showed other possible players in the 
market, he waved it away. “Don’t worry about Sony,” he 
said. “We know what we’re doing, and they don’t.” After 
that, they quit showing slides, and instead Jobs 
peppered the group with questions. Fadell took away a 
lesson: “Steve prefers to be in the moment, talking 
things through. He once told me, ‘If you need slides, it 
shows you don’t know what you’re talking about.’”
Instead Jobs liked to be shown physical objects 
that he could feel, inspect, and fondle. So Fadell 
brought three different models to the conference room; 
Rubinstein had coached him on how to reveal them 
sequentially so that his preferred choice would be the 
pièce de résistance. They hid the mockup of that option 
under a wooden bowl at the center of the table.
Fadell began his show-and-tell by taking the 
various parts they were using out of a box and 
spreading them on the table. There were the 1.8-inch 
drive, LCD screen, boards, and batteries, all labeled 
with their cost and weight. As he displayed them, they 
discussed how the prices or sizes might come down 
over the next year or so. Some of the pieces could be 
put together, like Lego blocks, to show the options.
Then Fadell began unveiling his models, which 
were made of Styrofoam with fishing leads inserted to 
give them the proper weight. The first had a slot for a 
removable memory card for music. Jobs dismissed it as 
complicated. The second had dynamic RAM memory, 
which was cheap but would lose all of the songs if the 
battery ran out. Jobs was not pleased. Next Fadell put a 
few of the pieces together to show what a device with 
the 1.8-inch hard drive would be like. Jobs seemed 
intrigued. The show climaxed with Fadell lifting the bowl 
and revealing a fully assembled model of that 
alternative. “I was hoping to be able to play more with 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 508
the Lego parts, but Steve settled right on the hard-drive 
option just the way we had modeled it,” Fadell recalled. 
He was rather stunned by the process. “I was used to 
being at Philips, where decisions like this would take 
meeting after meeting, with a lot of PowerPoint 
presentations and going back for more study.”
Next it was Phil Schiller’s turn. “Can I bring out my 
idea now?” he asked. He left the room and returned 
with a handful of iPod models, all of which had the 
same device on the front: the soon-to-be-famous 
trackwheel. “I had been thinking of how you go through 
a playlist,” he recalled. “You can’t press a button 
hundreds of times. Wouldn’t it be great if you could 
have a wheel?” By turning the wheel with your thumb, 
you could scroll through songs. The longer you kept 
turning, the faster the scrolling got, so you could zip 
through hundreds easily. Jobs shouted, “That’s it!” He 
got Fadell and the engineers working on it.
Once the project was launched, Jobs immersed 
himself in it daily. His main demand was “Simplify!” He 
would go over each screen of the user interface and 
apply a rigid test: If he wanted a song or a function, he 
should be able to get there in three clicks. And the click 
should be intuitive. If he couldn’t figure out how to 
navigate to something, or if it took more than three 
clicks, he would be brutal. “There would be times when 
we’d rack our brains on a user interface problem, and 
think we’d considered every option, and he would go, 
‘Did you think of this?’” said Fadell. “And then we’d all 
go, ‘Holy shit.’ He’d redefine the problem or approach, 
and our little problem would go away.”
Every night Jobs would be on the phone with 
ideas. Fadell and the others would call each other up, 
discuss Jobs’s latest suggestion, and conspire on how 
to nudge him to where they wanted him to go, which 
worked about half the time. “We would have this 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 509
swirling thing of Steve’s latest idea, and we would all try 
to stay ahead of it,” said Fadell. “Every day there was 
something like that, whether it was a switch here, or a 
button color, or a pricing strategy issue. With his style, 
you needed to work with your peers, watch each other’s 
back.”
One key insight Jobs had was that as many 
functions as possible should be performed using 
iTunes on your computer rather than on the iPod. As he 
later recalled:
In order to make the iPod really easy to use—and 
this took a lot of arguing on my part—we needed to limit 
what the device itself would do. Instead we put that 
functionality in iTunes on the computer. For example, 
we made it so you couldn’t make playlists using the 
device. You made playlists on iTunes, and then you 
synced with the device. That was controversial. But 
what made the Rio and other devices so brain-dead 
was that they were complicated. They had to do things 
like make playlists, because they weren’t integrated 
with the jukebox software on your computer. So by 
owning the iTunes software and the iPod device, that 
allowed us to make the computer and the device work 
together, and it allowed us to put the complexity in the 
right place.
  The most Zen of all simplicities was Jobs’s decree, 
which astonished his colleagues, that the iPod would 
not have an on-off switch. It became true of most Apple 
devices. There was no need for one. Apple’s devices 
would go dormant if they were not being used, and they 
would wake up when you touched any key. But there 
was no need for a switch that would go “Click—you’re 
off. Good-bye.”
Suddenly everything had fallen into place: a drive 
that would hold a thousand songs; an interface and 
scroll wheel that would let you navigate a thousand 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 510
songs; a FireWire connection that could sync a 
thousand songs in under ten minutes; and a battery that 
would last through a thousand songs. “We suddenly 
were looking at one another and saying, ‘This is going 
to be so cool,’” Jobs recalled. “We knew how cool it 
was, because we knew how badly we each wanted one 
personally. And the concept became so beautifully 
simple: a thousand songs in your pocket.” One of the 
copywriters suggested they call it a “Pod.” Jobs was the 
one who, borrowing from the iMac and iTunes names, 
modified that to iPod.
The Whiteness of the Whale
Jony Ive had been playing with the foam model of 
the iPod and trying to conceive what the finished 
product should look like when an idea occurred to him 
on a morning drive from his San Francisco home to 
Cupertino. Its face should be pure white, he told his 
colleague in the car, and it should connect seamlessly 
to a polished stainless steel back. “Most small 
consumer products have this disposable feel to them,” 
said Ive. “There is no cultural gravity to them. The thing 
I’m proudest of about the iPod is that there is something 
about it that makes it feel significant, not disposable.”
The white would be not just white, but purewhite. 
“Not only the device, but the headphones and the wires 
and even the power block,” he recalled. “Purewhite.” 
Others kept arguing that the headphones, of course, 
should be black, like all headphones. “But Steve got it 
immediately, and embraced white,” said Ive. “There 
would be a purity to it.” The sinuous flow of the white 
earbud wires helped make the iPod an icon. As Ive 
described it:
There was something very significant and 
nondisposable about it, yet there was also something 
very quiet and very restrained. It wasn’t wagging its tail 
in your face. It was restrained, but it was also crazy, with 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 511
those flowing headphones. That’s why I like white. 
White isn’t just a neutral color. It is so pure and quiet. 
Bold and conspicuous and yet so inconspicuous as 
well
Lee Clow’s advertising team at TBWAwanted to 
celebrate the iconic nature of the iPod and its whiteness 
rather than create more traditional product-introduction 
ads that showed off the device’s features. James 
Vincent, a lanky young Brit who had played in a band 
and worked as a DJ, had recently joined the agency, 
and he was a natural to help focus Apple’s advertising 
on hip millennial-generation music lovers rather than 
rebel baby boomers. With the help of the art director 
Susan Alinsangan, they created a series of billboards 
and posters for the iPod, and they spread the options 
on Jobs’s conference room table for his inspection.
At the far right end they placed the most traditional 
options, which featured straightforward photos of the 
iPod on a white background. At the far left end they 
placed the most graphic and iconic treatments, which 
showed just a silhouette of someone dancing while 
listening to an iPod, its white earphone wires waving 
with the music. “It understood your emotional and 
intensely personal relationship with the music,” Vincent 
said. He suggested to Duncan Milner, the creative 
director, that they all stand firmly at the far left end, to 
see if they could get Jobs to gravitate there. When he 
walked in, he went immediately to the right, looking at 
the stark product pictures. “This looks great,” he said. 
“Let’s talk about these.” Vincent, Milner, and Clow did 
not budge from the other end. Finally, Jobs looked up, 
glanced at the iconic treatments, and said, “Oh, I guess 
you like this stuff.” He shook his head. “It doesn’t show 
the product. It doesn’t say what it is.” Vincent proposed 
that they use the iconic images but add the tagline, 
“1,000 songs in your pocket.” That would say it all. Jobs 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 512
glanced back toward the right end of the table, then 
finally agreed. Not surprisingly he was soon claiming 
that it was his idea to push for the more iconic ads. 
“There were some skeptics around who asked, ‘How’s 
this going to actually sell an iPod?’” Jobs recalled. 
“That’s when it came in handy to be the CEO, so I could 
push the idea through.”
Jobs realized that there was yet another 
advantage to the fact that Apple had an integrated 
system of computer, software, and device. It meant that 
sales of the iPod would drive sales of the iMac. That, in 
turn, meant that he could take money that Apple was 
spending on iMac advertising and shift it to spending on 
iPod ads—getting a double bang for the buck. A triple 
bang, actually, because the ads would lend luster and 
youthfulness to the whole Apple brand. He recalled:
I had this crazy idea that we could sell just as 
many Macs by advertising the iPod. In addition, the 
iPod would position Apple as evoking innovation and 
youth. So I moved $75 million of advertising money to 
the iPod, even though the category didn’t justify one 
hundredth of that. That meant that we completely 
dominated the market for music players. We outspent 
everybody by a factor of about a hundred.
  The television ads showed the iconic silhouettes 
dancing to songs picked by Jobs, Clow, and Vincent. 
“Finding the music became our main fun at our weekly 
marketing meetings,” said Clow. “We’d play some edgy 
cut, Steve would say, ‘I hate that,’ and James would 
have to talk him into it.” The ads helped popularize 
many new bands, most notably the Black Eyed Peas; 
the ad with “Hey Mama” is the classic of the silhouettes 
genre. When a new ad was about to go into production, 
Jobs would often have second thoughts, call up 
Vincent, and insist that he cancel it. “It sounds a bit 
poppy” or “It sounds a bit trivial,” he would say. “Let’s 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 513
call it off.” James would get flustered and try to talk him 
around. “Hold on, it’s going to be great,” he would 
argue. Invariably Jobs would relent, the ad would be 
made, and he would love it.
Jobs unveiled the iPod on October 23, 2001, at 
one of his signature product launch events. “Hint: It’s 
not a Mac,” the invitation teased. When it came time to 
reveal the product, after he described its technical 
capabilities, Jobs did not do his usual trick of walking 
over to a table and pulling off a velvet cloth. Instead he 
said, “I happen to have one right here in my pocket.” He 
reached into his jeans and pulled out the gleaming 
white device. “This amazing little device holds a 
thousand songs, and it goes right in my pocket.” He 
slipped it back in and ambled offstage to applause