THE iTUNES STORE
I’m the Pied Piper
Warner Music
At the beginning of 2002 Apple faced a challenge. 
The seamless connection between your iPod, iTunes 
software, and computer made it easy to manage the 
music you already owned. But to get new music, you 
had to venture out of this cozy environment and go buy 
a CD or download the songs online. The latter 
endeavor usually meant foraying into the murky 
domains of file-sharing and piracy services. So Jobs 
wanted to offer iPod users a way to download songs 
that was simple, safe, and legal.
The music industry also faced a challenge. It was 
being plagued by a bestiary of piracy services—
Napster, Grokster, Gnutella, Kazaa—that enabled 
people to get songs for free. Partly as a result, legal 
sales of CDs were down 9% in 2002.
The executives at the music companies were 
desperately scrambling, with the elegance of secondgraders playing soccer, to agree on a common 
standard for copy-protecting digital music. Paul Vidich 
of Warner Music and his corporate colleague Bill 
Raduchel of AOL Time Warner were working with Sony 
in that effort, and they hoped to get Apple to be part of 
their consortium. So a group of them flew to Cupertino 
in January 2002 to see Jobs.
It was not an easy meeting. Vidich had a cold and 
was losing his voice, so his deputy, Kevin Gage, began 
the presentation. Jobs, sitting at the head of the 
conference table, fidgeted and looked annoyed. After 
four slides, he waved his hand and broke in. “You have 
your heads up your asses,” he pointed out. Everyone 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 517
turned to Vidich, who struggled to get his voice working. 
“You’re right,” he said after a long pause. “We don’t 
know what to do. You need to help us figure it out.” Jobs 
later recalled being slightly taken aback, and he agreed 
that Apple would work with the Warner-Sony effort.
If the music companies had been able to agree on 
a standardized encoding method for protecting music 
files, then multiple online stores could have proliferated. 
That would have made it hard for Jobs to create an 
iTunes Store that allowed Apple to control how online 
sales were handled. Sony, however, handed Jobs that 
opportunity when it decided, after the January 2002 
Cupertino meeting, to pull out of the talks because it 
favored its own proprietary format, from which it would 
get royalties.
“You know Steve, he has his own agenda,” Sony’s 
CEO Nobuyuki Idei explained to Red Herringeditor 
Tony Perkins. “Although he is a genius, he doesn’t 
share everything with you. This is a difficult person to 
work with if you are a big company. . . . It is a 
nightmare.” Howard Stringer, then head of Sony North 
America, added about Jobs: “Trying to get together 
would frankly be a waste of time.”
Instead Sony joined with Universal to create a 
subscription service called Pressplay. Meanwhile, AOL 
Time Warner, Bertelsmann, and EMI teamed up with 
RealNetworks to create MusicNet. Neither would 
license its songs to the rival service, so each offered 
only about half the music available. Both were 
subscription services that allowed customers to stream 
songs but not keep them, so you lost access to them if 
your subscription lapsed. They had complicated 
restrictions and clunky interfaces. Indeed they would 
earn the dubious distinction of becoming number nine 
on PC World’s list of “the 25 worst tech products of all 
time.” The magazine declared, “The services’ 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 518
stunningly brain-dead features showed that the record 
companies still didn’t get it.”
At this point Jobs could have decided simply to 
indulge piracy. Free music meant more valuable iPods. 
Yet because he reallyliked music, and the artists who 
made it, he was opposed to what he saw as the theft of 
creative products. As he later told me:
From the earliest days at Apple, I realized that we 
thrived when we created intellectual property. If people 
copied or stole our software, we’d be out of business. If 
it weren’t protected, there’d be no incentive for us to 
make new software or product designs. If protection of 
intellectual property begins to disappear, creative 
companies will disappear or never get started. But 
there’s a simpler reason: It’s wrong to steal. It hurts 
other people. And it hurts your own character.
  He knew, however, that the best way to stop piracy
—in fact the only way—was to offer an alternative that 
was more attractive than the brain-dead services that 
music companies were concocting. “We believe that 
80% of the people stealing stuff don’t want to be, there’s 
just no legal alternative,” he told Andy Langer of 
Esquire.“So we said, ‘Let’s create a legal alternative to 
this.’ Everybody wins. Music companies win. The artists 
win. Apple wins. And the user wins, because he gets a 
better service and doesn’t have to be a thief.”
So Jobs set out to create an “iTunes Store” and to 
persuade the five top record companies to allow digital 
versions of their songs to be sold there. “I’ve never 
spent so much of my time trying to convince people to 
do the right thing for themselves,” he recalled. Because 
the companies were worried about the pricing model 
and unbundling of albums, Jobs pitched that his new 
service would be only on the Macintosh, a mere 5% of 
the market. They could try the idea with little risk. “We 
used our small market share to our advantage by 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 519
arguing that if the store turned out to be destructive it 
wouldn’t destroy the entire universe,” he recalled.
Jobs’s proposal was to sell digital songs for 99 
cents—a simple and impulsive purchase. The record 
companies would get 70 cents of that. Jobs insisted that 
this would be more appealing than the monthly 
subscription model preferred by the music companies. 
He believed that people had an emotional connection 
to the songs they loved. They wanted to own“Sympathy 
for the Devil” and “Shelter from the Storm,” not just rent 
them. As he told Jeff Goodell of Rolling Stoneat the 
time, “I think you could make available the Second 
Coming in a subscription model and it might not be 
successful.”
Jobs also insisted that the iTunes Store would sell 
individual songs, not just entire albums. That ended up 
being the biggest cause of conflict with the record 
companies, which made money by putting out albums 
that had two or three great songs and a dozen or so 
fillers; to get the song they wanted, consumers had to 
buy the whole album. Some musicians objected on 
artistic grounds to Jobs’s plan to disaggregate albums. 
“There’s a flow to a good album,” said Trent Reznor of 
Nine Inch Nails. “The songs support each other. That’s 
the way I like to make music.” But the objections were 
moot. “Piracy and online downloads had already 
deconstructed the album,” recalled Jobs. “You couldn’t 
compete with piracy unless you sold the songs 
individually.”
At the heart of the problem was a chasm between 
the people who loved technology and those who loved 
artistry. Jobs loved both, as he had demonstrated at 
Pixar and Apple, and he was thus positioned to bridge 
the gap. He later explained:
When I went to Pixar, I became aware of a great 
divide. Tech companies don’t understand creativity. 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 520
They don’t appreciate intuitivethinking, like the ability of 
an A&R guy at a music label to listen to a hundred 
artists and have a feel for which five might be 
successful. And they think that creative people just sit 
around on couches all day and are undisciplined, 
because they’ve not seen how driven and disciplined 
the creative folks at places like Pixar are. On the other 
hand, music companies are completely clueless about 
technology. They think they can just go out and hire a 
few tech folks. But that would be like Apple trying to hire 
people to produce music. We’d get second-rate A&R 
people, just like the music companies ended up with 
second-rate tech people. I’m one of the few people who 
understands how producing technology requires 
intuition and creativity, and how producing something 
artistic takes real discipline.
  Jobs had a long relationship with Barry Schuler, 
the CEO of the AOL unit of Time Warner, and began to 
pick his brain about how to get the music labels into the 
proposed iTunes Store. “Piracy is flipping everyone’s 
circuit breakers,” Schuler told him. “You should use the 
argument that because you have an integrated end-toend service, from iPods to the store, you can best 
protect how the music is used.”
One day in March 2002, Schuler got a call from 
Jobs and decided to conference-in Vidich. Jobs asked 
Vidich if he would come to Cupertino and bring the 
head of Warner Music, Roger Ames. This time Jobs was 
charming. Ames was a sardonic, fun, and clever Brit, a 
type (such as James Vincent and Jony Ive) that Jobs 
tended to like. So the Good Steve was on display. At 
one point early in the meeting, Jobs even played the 
unusual role of diplomat. Ames and Eddy Cue, who ran 
iTunes for Apple, got into an argument over why radio 
in England was not as vibrant as in the United States, 
and Jobs stepped in, saying, “We know about tech, but 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 521
we don’t know as much about music, so let’s not argue.”
Ames had just lost a boardroom battle to have his 
corporation’s AOL division improve its own fledgling 
music download service. “When I did a digital download 
using AOL, I could never find the song on my shitty 
computer,” he recalled. So when Jobs demonstrated a 
prototype of the iTunes Store, Ames was impressed. 
“Yes, yes, that’s exactly what we’ve been waiting for,” 
he said. He agreed that Warner Music would sign up, 
and he offered to help enlist other music companies.
Jobs flew east to show the service to other Time 
Warner execs. “He sat in front of a Mac like a kid with a 
toy,” Vidich recalled. “Unlike any other CEO, he was 
totally engaged with the product.” Ames and Jobs 
began to hammer out the details of the iTunes Store, 
including the number of times a track could be put on 
different devices and how the copy-protection system 
would work. They soon were in agreement and set out 
to corral other music labels.
Herding Cats
The key player to enlist was Doug Morris, head of 
the Universal Music Group. His domain included musthave artists such as U2, Eminem, and Mariah Carey, as 
well as powerful labels such as Motown and 
Interscope-Geffen-A&M. Morris was eager to talk. More 
than any other mogul, he was upset about piracy and 
fed up with the caliber of the technology people at the 
music companies. “It was like the Wild West,” Morris 
recalled. “No one was selling digital music, and it was 
awash with piracy. Everything we tried at the record 
companies was a failure. The difference in skill sets 
between the music folks and technologists is just huge.”
As Ames walked with Jobs to Morris’s office on 
Broadway he briefed Jobs on what to say. It worked. 
What impressed Morris was that Jobs tied everything 
together in a way that made things easy for the 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 522
consumer and also safe for the record companies. 
“Steve did something brilliant,” said Morris. “He 
proposed this complete system: the iTunes Store, the 
music-management software, the iPod itself. It was so 
smooth. He had the whole package.”
Morris was convinced that Jobs had the technical 
vision that was lacking at the music companies. “Of 
course we have to rely on Steve Jobs to do this,” he told 
his own tech vice president, “because we don’t have 
anyone at Universal who knows anything about 
technology.” That did not make Universal’s 
technologists eager to work with Jobs, and Morris had 
to keep ordering them to surrender their objections and 
make a deal quickly. They were able to add a few more 
restrictions to FairPlay, the Apple system of digital rights 
management, so that a purchased song could not be 
spread to too many devices. But in general, they went 
along with the concept of the iTunes Store that Jobs 
had worked out with Ames and his Warner colleagues.
Morris was so smitten with Jobs that he called 
Jimmy Iovine, the fast-talking and brash chief of 
Interscope-Geffen-A&M. Iovine and Morris were best 
friends who had spoken every day for the past thirty 
years. “When I met Steve, I thought he was our savior, 
so I immediately brought Jimmy in to get his 
impression,” Morris recalled.
Jobs could be extraordinarily charming when he 
wanted to be, and he turned it on when Iovine flew out 
to Cupertino for a demo. “See how simple it is?” he 
asked Iovine. “Your tech folks are never going to do 
this. There’s no one at the music companies who can 
make it simple enough.”
Iovine called Morris right away. “This guy is 
unique!” he said. “You’re right. He’s got a turnkey 
solution.” They complained about how they had spent 
two years working with Sony, and it hadn’t gone 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 523
anywhere. “Sony’s never going to figure things out,” he 
told Morris. They agreed to quit dealing with Sony and 
join with Apple instead. “How Sony missed this is 
completely mind-boggling to me, a historic fuckup,” 
Iovine said. “Steve would fire people if the divisions 
didn’t work together, but Sony’s divisions were at war 
with one another.”
Indeed Sony provided a clear counterexample to 
Apple. It had a consumer electronics division that made 
sleek products and a music division with beloved artists 
(including Bob Dylan). But because each division tried 
to protect its own interests, the company as a whole 
never got its act together to produce an end-to-end 
service.
Andy Lack, the new head of Sony music, had the 
unenviable task of negotiating with Jobs about whether 
Sony would sell its music in the iTunes Store. The 
irrepressible and savvy Lack had just come from a 
distinguished career in television journalism—a 
producer at CBS News and president of NBC—and he 
knew how to size people up and keep his sense of 
humor. He realized that, for Sony, selling its songs in 
the iTunes Store was both insane and necessary—
which seemed to be the case with a lot of decisions in 
the music business. Apple would make out like a 
bandit, not just from its cut on song sales, but from 
driving the sale of iPods. Lack believed that since the 
music companies would be responsible for the success 
of the iPod, they should get a royalty from each device 
sold.
Jobs would agree with Lack in many of their 
conversations and claim that he wanted to be a true 
partner with the music companies. “Steve, you’ve got 
me if you just give me somethingfor every sale of your 
device,” Lack told him in his booming voice. “It’s a 
beautiful device. But our music is helping to sell it. 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 524
That’s what true partnership means to me.”
“I’m with you,” Jobs replied on more than one 
occasion. But then he would go to Doug Morris and 
Roger Ames to lament, in a conspiratorial fashion, that 
Lack just didn’t get it, that he was clueless about the 
music business, that he wasn’t as smart as Morris and 
Ames. “In classic Steve fashion, he would agree to 
something, but it would never happen,” said Lack. “He 
would set you up and then pull it off the table. He’s 
pathological, which can be useful in negotiations. And 
he’s a genius.”
Lack knew that he could not win his case unless 
he got support from others in the industry. But Jobs 
used flattery and the lure of Apple’s marketing clout to 
keep the other record labels in line. “If the industry had 
stood together, we could have gotten a license fee, 
giving us the dual revenue stream we desperately 
needed,” Lack said. “We were the ones making the 
iPod sell, so it would have been equitable.” That, of 
course, was one of the beauties of Jobs’s end-to-end 
strategy: Sales of songs on iTunes would drive iPod 
sales, which would drive Macintosh sales. What made it 
all the more infuriating to Lack was that Sony could 
have done the same, but it never could get its hardware 
and software and content divisions to row in unison.
Jobs tried hard to seduce Lack. During one visit to 
New York, he invited Lack to his penthouse at the Four 
Seasons hotel. Jobs had already ordered a breakfast 
spread—oatmeal and berries for them both—and was 
“beyond solicitous,” Lack recalled. “But Jack Welch 
taught me not to fall in love. Morris and Ames could be 
seduced. They would say, ‘You don’t get it, you’re 
supposed to fall in love,’ and they did. So I ended up 
isolated in the industry.”
Even after Sony agreed to sell its music in the 
iTunes Store, the relationship remained contentious. 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 525
Each new round of renewals or changes would bring a 
showdown. “With Andy, it was mostly about his big 
ego,” Jobs claimed. “He never really understood the 
music business, and he could never really deliver. I 
thought he was sometimes a dick.” When I told him 
what Jobs said, Lack responded, “I fought for Sony and 
the music industry, so I can see why he thought I was a 
dick.”
Corralling the record labels to go along with the 
iTunes plan was not enough, however. Many of their 
artists had carve-outs in their contracts that allowed 
them personally to control the digital distribution of their 
music or prevent their songs from being unbundled 
from their albums and sold singly. So Jobs set about 
cajoling various top musicians, which he found fun but 
also a lot harder than he expected.
Before the launch of iTunes, Jobs met with almost 
two dozen major artists, including Bono, Mick Jagger, 
and Sheryl Crow. “He would call me at home, 
relentless, at ten at night, to say he still needed to get to 
Led Zeppelin or Madonna,” Ames recalled. “He was 
determined, and nobody else could have convinced 
some of these artists.”
Perhaps the oddest meeting was when Dr. Dre 
came to visit Jobs at Apple headquarters. Jobs loved 
the Beatles and Dylan, but he admitted that the appeal 
of rap eluded him. Now Jobs needed Eminem and 
other rappers to agree to be sold in the iTunes Store, so 
he huddled with Dr. Dre, who was Eminem’s mentor. 
After Jobs showed him the seamless way the iTunes 
Store would work with the iPod, Dr. Dre proclaimed, 
“Man, somebody finally got it right.”
On the other end of the musical taste spectrum 
was the trumpeter Wynton Marsalis. He was on a West 
Coast fund-raising tour for Jazz at Lincoln Center and 
was meeting with Jobs’s wife, Laurene. Jobs insisted 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 526
that he come over to the house in Palo Alto, and he 
proceeded to show off iTunes. “What do you want to 
search for?” he asked Marsalis. Beethoven, the 
trumpeter replied. “Watch what it can do!” Jobs kept 
insisting when Marsalis’s attention would wander. “See 
how the interface works.” Marsalis later recalled, “I don’t 
care much about computers, and kept telling him so, but 
he goes on for two hours. He was a man possessed. 
After a while, I started looking at him and not the 
computer, because I was so fascinated with his 
passion.”
Jobs unveiled the iTunes Store on April 28, 2003, 
at San Francisco’s Moscone Center. With hair now 
closely cropped and receding, and a studied unshaven 
look, Jobs paced the stage and described how Napster 
“demonstrated that the Internet was made for music 
delivery.” Its offspring, such as Kazaa, he said, offered 
songs for free. How do you compete with that? To 
answer that question, he began by describing the 
downsides of using these free services. The downloads 
were unreliable and the quality was often bad. “A lot of 
these songs are encoded by seven-year-olds, and they 
don’t do a great job.” In addition, there were no 
previews or album art. Then he added, “Worst of all it’s 
stealing. It’s best not to mess with karma.”
Why had these piracy sites proliferated, then? 
Because, Jobs said, there was no alternative. The 
subscription services, such as Pressplay and MusicNet, 
“treat you like a criminal,” he said, showing a slide of an 
inmate in striped prison garb. Then a slide of Bob Dylan 
came on the screen. “People want to own the music 
they love.”
After a lot of negotiating with the record 
companies, he said, “they were willing to do something 
with us to change the world.” The iTunes Store would 
start with 200,000 tracks, and it would grow each day. 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 527
By using the store, he said, you can own your songs, 
burn them on CDs, be assured of the download quality, 
get a preview of a song before you download it, and 
use it with your iMovies and iDVDs to “make the 
soundtrack of your life.” The price? Just 99 cents, he 
said, less than a third of what a Starbucks latte cost. 
Why was it worth it? Because to get the right song from 
Kazaa took about fifteen minutes, rather than a minute. 
By spending an hour of your time to save about four 
dollars, he calculated, “you’re working for under the 
minimum wage!” And one more thing . . . “With iTunes, 
it’s not stealing anymore. It’s good karma.”
Clapping the loudest for that line were the heads 
of the record labels in the front row, including Doug 
Morris sitting next to Jimmy Iovine, in his usual baseball 
cap, and the whole crowd from Warner Music. Eddy 
Cue, who was in charge of the store, predicted that 
Apple would sell a million songs in six months. Instead 
the iTunes Store sold a million songs in six days.“This 
will go down in history as a turning point for the music 
industry,” Jobs declared.
Microsoft
“We were smoked.”
That was the blunt email sent to four colleagues by 
Jim Allchin, the Microsoft executive in charge of 
Windows development, at 5 p.m. the day he saw the 
iTunes Store. It had only one other line: “How did they 
get the music companies to go along?”
Later that evening a reply came from David Cole, 
who was running Microsoft’s online business group. 
“When Apple brings this to Windows (I assume they 
won’t make the mistake of not bringing it to Windows), 
we will really be smoked.” He said that the Windows 
team needed “to bring this kind of solution to market,” 
adding, “That will require focus and goal alignment 
around an end-to-end servicewhich delivers direct user 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 528
value, something we don’t have today.” Even though 
Microsoft had its own Internet service (MSN), it was not 
used to providing end-to-end service the way Apple 
was.
Bill Gates himself weighed in at 10:46 that night. 
His subject line, “Apple’s Jobs again,” indicated his 
frustration. “Steve Jobs’s ability to focus in on a few 
things that count, get people who get user interface 
right, and market things as revolutionary are amazing 
things,” he said. He too expressed surprise that Jobs 
had been able to convince the music companies to go 
along with his store. “This is very strange to me. The 
music companies’ own operations offer a service that is 
truly unfriendly to the user. Somehow they decide to 
give Apple the ability to do something pretty good.”
Gates also found it strange that no one else had 
created a service that allowed people to buy songs 
rather than subscribe on a monthly basis. “I am not 
saying this strangeness means we messed up—at least 
if we did, so did Real and Pressplay and MusicNet and 
basically everyone else,” he wrote. “Now that Jobs has 
done it we need to move fast to get something where 
the user interface and Rights are as good. . . . I think we 
need some plan to prove that, even though Jobs has us 
a bit flat footed again, we can move quick and both 
match and do stuff better.” It was an astonishing private 
admission: Microsoft had again been caught flat-footed, 
and it would again try to catch up by copying Apple. But 
like Sony, Microsoft could never make it happen, even 
after Jobs showed the way.
Instead Apple continued to smoke Microsoft in the 
way that Cole had predicted: It ported the iTunes 
software and store to Windows. But that took some 
internal agonizing. First, Jobs and his team had to 
decide whether they wanted the iPod to work with 
Windows computers. Jobs was initially opposed. “By 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 529
keeping the iPod for Mac only, it was driving the sales 
of Macs even more than we expected,” he recalled. But 
lined up against him were all four of his top executives: 
Schiller, Rubinstein, Robbin, and Fadell. It was an 
argument about what the future of Apple should be. “We 
felt we should be in the music player business, not just 
in the Mac business,” said Schiller.
Jobs always wanted Apple to create its own 
unified utopia, a magical walled garden where 
hardware and software and peripheral devices worked 
well together to create a great experience, and where 
the success of one product drove sales of all the 
companions. Now he was facing pressure to have his 
hottest new product work with Windows machines, and 
it went against his nature. “It was a really big argument 
for months,” Jobs recalled, “me against everyone else.” 
At one point he declared that Windows users would get 
to use iPods “over my dead body.” But still his team kept 
pushing. “This needsto get to the PC,” said Fadell.
Finally Jobs declared, “Until you can prove to me 
that it will make business sense, I’m not going to do it.” 
That was actually his way of backing down. If you put 
aside emotion and dogma, it was easy to prove that it 
made business sense to allow Windows users to buy 
iPods. Experts were called in, sales scenarios 
developed, and everyone concluded this would bring in 
more profits. “We developed a spreadsheet,” said 
Schiller. “Under all scenarios, there was no amount of 
cannibalization of Mac sales that would outweigh the 
sales of iPods.” Jobs was sometimes willing to 
surrender, despite his reputation, but he never won any 
awards for gracious concession speeches. “Screw it,” 
he said at one meeting where they showed him the 
analysis. “I’m sick of listening to you assholes. Go do 
whatever the hell you want.”
That left another question: When Apple allowed 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 530
the iPod to be compatible with Windows machines, 
should it also create a version of iTunes to serve as the 
music-management software for those Windows users? 
As usual, Jobs believed the hardware and software 
should go together: The user experience depended on 
the iPod working in complete sync (so to speak) with 
iTunes software on the computer. Schiller was 
opposed. “I thought that was crazy, since we don’t make 
Windows software,” Schiller recalled. “But Steve kept 
arguing, ‘If we’re going to do it, we should do it right.’”
Schiller prevailed at first. Apple decided to allow 
the iPod to work with Windows by using software from 
MusicMatch, an outside company. But the software was 
so clunky that it proved Jobs’s point, and Apple 
embarked on a fast-track effort to produce iTunes for 
Windows. Jobs recalled:
To make the iPod work on PCs, we initially 
partnered with another company that had a jukebox, 
gave them the secret sauce to connect to the iPod, and 
they did a crappy job. That was the worst of all worlds, 
because this other company was controlling a big piece 
of the user experience. So we lived with this crappy 
outside jukebox for about six months, and then we 
finally got iTunes written for Windows. In the end, you 
just don’t want someone else to control a big part of the 
user experience. People may disagree with me, but I 
am pretty consistent about that.
  Porting iTunes to Windows meant going back to all 
of the music companies—which had made deals to be 
in iTunes based on the assurance that it would be for 
only the small universe of Macintosh users—and 
negotiate again. Sony was especially resistant. Andy 
Lack thought it another example of Jobs changing the 
terms after a deal was done. It was. But by then the 
other labels were happy about how the iTunes Store 
was working and went along, so Sony was forced to 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 531
capitulate.
Jobs announced the launch of iTunes for Windows 
in October 2003. “Here’s a feature that people thought 
we’d never add until this happened,” he said, waving 
his hand at the giant screen behind him. “Hell froze 
over,” proclaimed the slide. The show included iChat 
appearances and videos from Mick Jagger, Dr. Dre, 
and Bono. “It’s a very cool thing for musicians and 
music,” Bono said of the iPod and iTunes. “That’s why 
I’m here to kiss the corporate ass. I don’t kiss 
everybody’s.”
Jobs was never prone to understatement. To the 
cheers of the crowd, he declared, “iTunes for Windows 
is probably the best Windows app ever written.”
Microsoft was not grateful. “They’re pursuing the 
same strategy that they pursued in the PC business, 
controlling both the hardware and software,” Bill Gates 
told Business Week.“We’ve always done things a little 
bit differently than Apple in terms of giving people 
choice.” It was not until three years later, in November 
2006, that Microsoft was finally able to release its own 
answer to the iPod. It was called the Zune, and it looked 
like an iPod, though a bit clunkier. Two years later it had 
achieved a market share of less than 5%. Jobs was 
brutal about the cause of the Zune’s uninspired design 
and market weakness:
The older I get, the more I see how much 
motivations matter. The Zune was crappy because the 
people at Microsoft don’t really love music or art the 
way we do. We won because we personally love music. 
We made the iPod for ourselves, and when you’re 
doing something for yourself, or your best friend or 
family, you’re not going to cheese out. If you don’t love 
something, you’re not going to go the extra mile, work 
the extra weekend, challenge the status quo as much.