THE iPHONE
Three Revolutionary Products in One
n iPod That Makes Calls
By 2005 iPod sales were skyrocketing. An 
astonishing twenty million were sold that year, 
quadruple the number of the year before. The product 
was becoming more important to the company’s bottom 
line, accounting for 45% of the revenue that year, and it 
was also burnishing the hipness of the company’s 
image in a way that drove sales of Macs.
That is why Jobs was worried. “He was always 
obsessing about what could mess us up,” board 
member Art Levinson recalled. The conclusion he had 
come to: “The device that can eat our lunch is the cell 
phone.” As he explained to the board, the digital 
camera market was being decimated now that phones 
were equipped with cameras. The same could happen 
to the iPod, if phone manufacturers started to build 
music players into them. “Everyone carries a phone, so 
that could render the iPod unnecessary.”
His first strategy was to do something that he had 
admitted in front of Bill Gates was not in his DNA: to 
partner with another company. He began talking to Ed 
Zander, the new CEO of Motorola, about making a 
companion to Motorola’s popular RAZR, which was a 
cell phone and digital camera, that would have an iPod 
built in. Thus was born the ROKR. It ended up having 
neither the enticing minimalism of an iPod nor the 
convenient slimness of a RAZR. Ugly, difficult to load, 
and with an arbitrary hundred-song limit, it had all the 
hallmarks of a product that had been negotiated by a 
committee, which was counter to the way Jobs liked to 
work. Instead of hardware, software, and content all 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 608
being controlled by one company, they were cobbled 
together by Motorola, Apple, and the wireless carrier 
Cingular. “You call this the phone of the future?” Wired
scoffed on its November 2005 cover.
Jobs was furious. “I’m sick of dealing with these 
stupid companies like Motorola,” he told Tony Fadell 
and others at one of the iPod product review meetings. 
“Let’s do it ourselves.” He had noticed something odd 
about the cell phones on the market: They all stank, just 
like portable music players used to. “We would sit 
around talking about how much we hated our phones,” 
he recalled. “They were way too complicated. They had 
features nobody could figure out, including the address 
book. It was just Byzantine.” George Riley, an outside 
lawyer for Apple, remembers sitting at meetings to go 
over legal issues, and Jobs would get bored, grab 
Riley’s mobile phone, and start pointing out all the ways 
it was “brain-dead.” So Jobs and his team became 
excited about the prospect of building a phone that they 
would want to use. “That’s the best motivator of all,” 
Jobs later said.
Another motivator was the potential market. More 
than 825 million mobile phones were sold in 2005, to 
everyone from grammar schoolers to grandmothers. 
Since most were junky, there was room for a premium 
and hip product, just as there had been in the portable 
music-player market. At first he gave the project to the 
Apple group that was making the AirPort wireless base 
station, on the theory that it was a wireless product. But 
he soon realized that it was basically a consumer 
device, like the iPod, so he reassigned it to Fadell and 
his teammates.
Their initial approach was to modify the iPod. They 
tried to use the trackwheel as a way for a user to scroll 
through phone options and, without a keyboard, try to 
enter numbers. It was not a natural fit. “We were having 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 609
a lot of problems using the wheel, especially in getting it 
to dial phone numbers,” Fadell recalled. “It was 
cumbersome.” It was fine for scrolling through an 
address book, but horrible at inputting anything. The 
team kept trying to convince themselves that users 
would mainly be calling people who were already in 
their address book, but they knew that it wouldn’t really 
work.
At that time there was a second project under way 
at Apple: a secret effort to build a tablet computer. In 
2005 these narratives intersected, and the ideas for the 
tablet flowed into the planning for the phone. In other 
words, the idea for the iPad actually came before, and 
helped to shape, the birth of the iPhone.
Multi-touch
One of the engineers developing a tablet PC at 
Microsoft was married to a friend of Laurene and Steve 
Jobs, and for his fiftieth birthday he wanted to have a 
dinner party that included them along with Bill and 
Melinda Gates. Jobs went, a bit reluctantly. “Steve was 
actually quite friendly to me at the dinner,” Gates 
recalled, but he “wasn’t particularly friendly” to the 
birthday guy.
Gates was annoyed that the guy kept revealing 
information about the tablet PC he had developed for 
Microsoft. “He’s our employee and he’s revealing our 
intellectual property,” Gates recounted. Jobs was also 
annoyed, and it had just the consequence that Gates 
feared. As Jobs recalled:
This guy badgered me about how Microsoft was 
going to completely change the world with this tablet 
PC software and eliminate all notebook computers, and 
Apple ought to license his Microsoft software. But he 
was doing the device all wrong. It had a stylus. As soon 
as you have a stylus, you’re dead. This dinner was like 
the tenth time he talked to me about it, and I was so sick 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 610
of it that I came home and said, “Fuck this, let’s show 
him what a tablet can really be.”
  Jobs went into the office the next day, gathered his 
team, and said, “I want to make a tablet, and it can’t 
have a keyboard or a stylus.” Users would be able to 
type by touching the screen with their fingers. That 
meant the screen needed to have a feature that 
became known as multi-touch, the ability to process 
multiple inputs at the same time. “So could you guys 
come up with a multi-touch, touch-sensitive display for 
me?” he asked. It took them about six months, but they 
came up with a crude but workable prototype.
Jony Ive had a different memory of how multitouch was developed. He said his design team had 
already been working on a multi-touch input that was 
developed for the trackpads of Apple’s MacBook Pro, 
and they were experimenting with ways to transfer that 
capability to a computer screen. They used a projector 
to show on a wall what it would look like. “This is going 
to change everything,” Ive told his team. But he was 
careful not to show it to Jobs right away, especially 
since his people were working on it in their spare time 
and he didn’t want to quash their enthusiasm. “Because 
Steve is so quick to give an opinion, I don’t show him 
stuff in front of other people,” Ive recalled. “He might 
say, ‘This is shit,’ and snuff the idea. I feel that ideas are 
very fragile, so you have to be tender when they are in 
development. I realized that if he pissed on this, it would 
be so sad, because I knew it was so important.”
Ive set up the demonstration in his conference 
room and showed it to Jobs privately, knowing that he 
was less likely to make a snap judgment if there was no 
audience. Fortunately he loved it. “This is the future,” he 
exulted.
It was in fact such a good idea that Jobs realized 
that it could solve the problem they were having 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 611
creating an interface for the proposed cell phone. That 
project was far more important, so he put the tablet 
development on hold while the multi-touch interface 
was adopted for a phone-size screen. “If it worked on a 
phone,” he recalled, “I knew we could go back and use 
it on a tablet.”
Jobs called Fadell, Rubinstein, and Schiller to a 
secret meeting in the design studio conference room, 
where Ive gave a demonstration of multi-touch. “Wow!” 
said Fadell. Everyone liked it, but they were not sure 
that they would be able to make it work on a mobile 
phone. They decided to proceed on two paths: P1 was 
the code name for the phone being developed using an 
iPod trackwheel, and P2 was the new alternative using 
a multi-touch screen.
A small company in Delaware called FingerWorks 
was already making a line of multi-touch trackpads. 
Founded by two academics at the University of 
Delaware, John Elias and Wayne Westerman, 
FingerWorks had developed some tablets with multitouch sensing capabilities and taken out patents on 
ways to translate various finger gestures, such as 
pinches and swipes, into useful functions. In early 2005 
Apple quietly acquired the company, all of its patents, 
and the services of its two founders. FingerWorks quit 
selling its products to others, and it began filing its new 
patents in Apple’s name.
After six months of work on the trackwheel P1 and 
the multi-touch P2 phone options, Jobs called his inner 
circle into his conference room to make a decision. 
Fadell had been trying hard to develop the trackwheel 
model, but he admitted they had not cracked the 
problem of figuring out a simple way to dial calls. The 
multi-touch approach was riskier, because they were 
unsure whether they could execute the engineering, but 
it was also more exciting and promising. “We all know 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 612
this is the one we want to do,” said Jobs, pointing to the 
touchscreen. “So let’s make it work.” It was what he 
liked to call a bet-the-company moment, high risk and 
high reward if it succeeded.
A couple of members of the team argued for 
having a keyboard as well, given the popularity of the 
BlackBerry, but Jobs vetoed the idea. A physical 
keyboard would take away space from the screen, and 
it would not be as flexible and adaptable as a 
touchscreen keyboard. “A hardware keyboard seems 
like an easy solution, but it’s constraining,” he said. 
“Think of all the innovations we’d be able to adapt if we 
did the keyboard onscreen with software. Let’s bet on it, 
and then we’ll find a way to make it work.” The result 
was a device that displays a numerical pad when you 
want to dial a phone number, a typewriter keyboard 
when you want to write, and whatever buttons you 
might need for each particular activity. And then they all 
disappear when you’re watching a video. By having 
software replace hardware, the interface became fluid 
and flexible.
Jobs spent part of every day for six months helping 
to refine the display. “It was the most complex fun I’ve 
ever had,” he recalled. “It was like being the one 
evolving the variations on ‘Sgt. Pepper.’” A lot of 
features that seem simple now were the result of 
creative brainstorms. For example, the team worried 
about how to prevent the device from playing music or 
making a call accidentally when it was jangling in your 
pocket. Jobs was congenitally averse to having on-off 
switches, which he deemed “inelegant.” The solution 
was “Swipe to Open,” the simple and fun on-screen 
slider that activated the device when it had gone 
dormant. Another breakthrough was the sensor that 
figured out when you put the phone to your ear, so that 
your lobes didn’t accidentally activate some function. 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 613
And of course the icons came in his favorite shape, the 
primitive he made Bill Atkinson design into the software 
of the first Macintosh: rounded rectangles. In session 
after session, with Jobs immersed in every detail, the 
team members figured out ways to simplify what other 
phones made complicated. They added a big bar to 
guide you in putting calls on hold or making conference 
calls, found easy ways to navigate through email, and 
created icons you could scroll through horizontally to 
get to different apps—all of which were easier because 
they could be used visually on the screen rather than by 
using a keyboard built into the hardware.
Gorilla Glass
Jobs became infatuated with different materials 
the way he did with certain foods. When he went back 
to Apple in 1997 and started work on the iMac, he had 
embraced what could be done with translucent and 
colored plastic. The next phase was metal. He and Ive 
replaced the curvy plastic PowerBook G3 with the sleek 
titanium PowerBook G4, which they redesigned two 
years later in aluminum, as if just to demonstrate how 
much they liked different metals. Then they did an iMac 
and an iPod Nano in anodized aluminum, which meant 
that the metal had been put in an acid bath and 
electrified so that its surface oxidized. Jobs was told it 
could not be done in the quantities they needed, so he 
had a factory built in China to handle it. Ive went there, 
during the SARS epidemic, to oversee the process. “I 
stayed for three months in a dormitory to work on the 
process,” he recalled. “Ruby and others said it would be 
impossible, but I wanted to do it because Steve and I 
felt that the anodized aluminum had a real integrity to 
it.”
Next was glass. “After we did metal, I looked at 
Jony and said that we had to master glass,” said Jobs. 
For the Apple stores, they had created huge 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 614
windowpanes and glass stairs. For the iPhone, the 
original plan was for it to have a plastic screen, like the 
iPod. But Jobs decided it would feel much more elegant 
and substantive if the screens were glass. So he set 
about finding a glass that would be strong and resistant 
to scratches.
The natural place to look was Asia, where the 
glass for the stores was being made. But Jobs’s friend 
John Seeley Brown, who was on the board of Corning 
Glass in Upstate New York, told him that he should talk 
to that company’s young and dynamic CEO, Wendell 
Weeks. So he dialed the main Corning switchboard 
number and asked to be put through to Weeks. He got 
an assistant, who offered to pass along the message. 
“No, I’m Steve Jobs,” he replied. “Put me through.” The 
assistant refused. Jobs called Brown and complained 
that he had been subjected to “typical East Coast 
bullshit.” When Weeks heard that, he called the main 
Apple switchboard and asked to speak to Jobs. He was 
told to put his request in writing and send it in by fax. 
When Jobs was told what happened, he took a liking to 
Weeks and invited him to Cupertino.
Jobs described the type of glass Apple wanted for 
the iPhone, and Weeks told him that Corning had 
developed a chemical exchange process in the 1960s 
that led to what they dubbed “gorilla glass.” It was 
incredibly strong, but it had never found a market, so 
Corning quit making it. Jobs said he doubted it was 
good enough, and he started explaining to Weeks how 
glass was made. This amused Weeks, who of course 
knew more than Jobs about that topic. “Can you shut 
up,” Weeks interjected, “and let me teach you some 
science?” Jobs was taken aback and fell silent. Weeks 
went to the whiteboard and gave a tutorial on the 
chemistry, which involved an ion-exchange process 
that produced a compression layer on the surface of the 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 615
glass. This turned Jobs around, and he said he wanted 
as much gorilla glass as Corning could make within six 
months. “We don’t have the capacity,” Weeks replied. 
“None of our plants make the glass now.”
“Don’t be afraid,” Jobs replied. This stunned 
Weeks, who was good-humored and confident but not 
used to Jobs’s reality distortion field. He tried to explain 
that a false sense of confidence would not overcome 
engineering challenges, but that was a premise that 
Jobs had repeatedly shown he didn’t accept. He stared 
at Weeks unblinking. “Yes, you can do it,” he said. “Get 
your mind around it. You can do it.”
As Weeks retold this story, he shook his head in 
astonishment. “We did it in under six months,” he said. 
“We produced a glass that had never been made.” 
Corning’s facility in Harrisburg, Kentucky, which had 
been making LCD displays, was converted almost 
overnight to make gorilla glass full-time. “We put our 
best scientists and engineers on it, and we just made it 
work.” In his airy office, Weeks has just one framed 
memento on display. It’s a message Jobs sent the day 
the iPhone came out: “We couldn’t have done it without 
you.”
The Design
On many of his major projects, such as the first Toy 
Storyand the Apple store, Jobs pressed “pause” as 
they neared completion and decided to make major 
revisions. That happened with the design of the iPhone 
as well. The initial design had the glass screen set into 
an aluminum case. One Monday morning Jobs went 
over to see Ive. “I didn’t sleep last night,” he said, 
“because I realized that I just don’t love it.” It was the 
most important product he had made since the first 
Macintosh, and it just didn’t look right to him. Ive, to his 
dismay, instantly realized that Jobs was right. “I 
remember feeling absolutely embarrassed that he had 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 616
to make the observation.”
The problem was that the iPhone should have 
been all about the display, but in their current design 
the case competed with the display instead of getting 
out of the way. The whole device felt too masculine, 
task-driven, efficient. “Guys, you’ve killed yourselves 
over this design for the last nine months, but we’re 
going to change it,” Jobs told Ive’s team. “We’re all 
going to have to work nights and weekends, and if you 
want we can hand out some guns so you can kill us 
now.” Instead of balking, the team agreed. “It was one of 
my proudest moments at Apple,” Jobs recalled.
The new design ended up with just a thin stainless 
steel bezel that allowed the gorilla glass display to go 
right to the edge. Every part of the device seemed to 
defer to the screen. The new look was austere, yet also 
friendly. You could fondle it. It meant they had to redo 
the circuit boards, antenna, and processor placement 
inside, but Jobs ordered the change. “Other companies 
may have shipped,” said Fadell, “but we pressed the 
reset button and started over.”
One aspect of the design, which reflected not only 
Jobs’s perfectionism but also his desire to control, was 
that the device was tightly sealed. The case could not 
be opened, even to change the battery. As with the 
original Macintosh in 1984, Jobs did not want people 
fiddling inside. In fact when Apple discovered in 2011 
that third-party repair shops were opening up the 
iPhone 4, it replaced the tiny screws with a tamperresistant Pentalobe screw that was impossible to open 
with a commercially available screwdriver. By not 
having a replaceable battery, it was possible to make 
the iPhone much thinner. For Jobs, thinner was always 
better. “He’s always believed that thin is beautiful,” said 
Tim Cook. “You can see that in all of the work. We have 
the thinnest notebook, the thinnest smartphone, and we 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 617
made the iPad thin and then even thinner.”
The Launch
When it came time to launch the iPhone, Jobs 
decided, as usual, to grant a magazine a special sneak 
preview. He called John Huey, the editor in chief of 
Time Inc., and began with his typical superlative: “This 
is the best thing we’ve ever done.” He wanted to give 
Timethe exclusive, “but there’s nobody smart enough 
at Timeto write it, so I’m going to give it to someone 
else.” Huey introduced him to Lev Grossman, a savvy 
technology writer (and novelist) at Time. In his piece 
Grossman correctly noted that the iPhone did not really 
invent many new features, it just made these features a 
lot more usable. “But that’s important. When our tools 
don’t work, we tend to blame ourselves, for being too 
stupid or not reading the manual or having too-fat 
fingers. . . . When our tools are broken, we feel broken. 
And when somebody fixes one, we feel a tiny bit more 
whole.”
For the unveiling at the January 2007 Macworld in 
San Francisco, Jobs invited back Andy Hertzfeld, Bill 
Atkinson, Steve Wozniak, and the 1984 Macintosh 
team, as he had done when he launched the iMac. In a 
career of dazzling product presentations, this may have 
been his best. “Every once in a while a revolutionary 
product comes along that changes everything,” he 
began. He referred to two earlier examples: the original 
Macintosh, which “changed the whole computer 
industry,” and the first iPod, which “changed the entire 
music industry.” Then he carefully built up to the product 
he was about to launch: “Today, we’re introducing three 
revolutionary products of this class. The first one is a 
widescreen iPod with touch controls. The second is a 
revolutionary mobile phone. And the third is a 
breakthrough Internet communications device.” He 
repeated the list for emphasis, then asked, “Are you 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 618
getting it? These are not three separate devices, this is 
one device, and we are calling it iPhone.”
 When the iPhone went on sale five months later, at 
the end of June 2007, Jobs and his wife walked to the 
Apple store in Palo Alto to take in the excitement. Since 
he often did that on the day new products went on sale, 
there were some fans hanging out in anticipation, and 
they greeted him as they would have Moses if he had 
walked in to buy the Bible. Among the faithful were 
Hertzfeld and Atkinson. “Bill stayed in line all night,” 
Hertzfeld said. Jobs waved his arms and started 
laughing. “I sent him one,” he said. Hertzfeld replied, 
“He needs six.”
The iPhone was immediately dubbed “the Jesus 
Phone” by bloggers. But Apple’s competitors 
emphasized that, at $500, it cost too much to be 
successful. “It’s the most expensive phone in the world,” 
Microsoft’s Steve Ballmer said in a CNBC interview. 
“And it doesn’t appeal to business customers because it 
doesn’t have a keyboard.” Once again Microsoft had 
underestimated Jobs’s product. By the end of 2010, 
Apple had sold ninety million iPhones, and it reaped 
more than half of the total profits generated in the global 
cell phone market.
“Steve understands desire,” said Alan Kay, the 
Xerox PARC pioneer who had envisioned a 
“Dynabook” tablet computer forty years earlier. Kay was 
good at making prophetic assessments, so Jobs asked 
him what he thought of the iPhone. “Make the screen 
five inches by eight inches, and you’ll rule the world,” 
Kay said. He did not know that the design of the iPhone 
had started with, and would someday lead to, ideas for 
a tablet computer that would fulfill—indeed exceed—his 
vision for the Dynabook

The Stanford Commencement
Jobs kept his continuing battle with the cancer 
secret—he told everyone that he had been “cured”—
just as he had kept quiet about his diagnosis in October 
2003. Such secrecy was not surprising; it was part of his 
nature. What was more surprising was his decision to 
speak very personally and publicly about his cancer 
diagnosis. Although he rarely gave speeches other 
than his staged product demonstrations, he accepted 
Stanford’s invitation to give its June 2005 
commencement address. He was in a reflective mood 
after his health scare and turning fifty.
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 595
For help with the speech, he called the brilliant 
scriptwriter Aaron Sorkin (A Few Good Men, The West 
Wing). Jobs sent him some thoughts. “That was in 
February, and I heard nothing, so I ping him again in 
April, and he says, ‘Oh, yeah,’ and I send him a few 
more thoughts,” Jobs recounted. “I finally get him on the 
phone, and he keeps saying ‘Yeah,’ but finally it’s the 
beginning of June, and he never sent me anything.”
Jobs got panicky. He had always written his own 
presentations, but he had never done a 
commencement address. One night he sat down and 
wrote the speech himself, with no help other than 
bouncing ideas off his wife. As a result, it turned out to 
be a very intimate and simple talk, with the unadorned 
and personal feel of a perfect Steve Jobs product.
Alex Haley once said that the best way to begin a 
speech is “Let me tell you a story.” Nobody is eager for 
a lecture, but everybody loves a story. And that was the 
approach Jobs chose. “Today, I want to tell you three 
stories from my life,” he began. “That’s it. No big deal. 
Just three stories.”
 The first was about dropping out of Reed College. 
“I could stop taking the required classes that didn’t 
interest me, and begin dropping in on the ones that 
looked far more interesting.” The second was about 
how getting fired from Apple turned out to be good for 
him. “The heaviness of being successful was replaced 
by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure 
about everything.” The students were unusually 
attentive, despite a plane circling overhead with a 
banner that exhorted “recycle all e-waste,” and it was 
his third tale that enthralled them. It was about being 
diagnosed with cancer and the awareness it brought:
Remembering that I’ll be dead soon is the most 
important tool I’ve ever encountered to help me make 
the big choices in life. Because almost everything—all 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 596
external expectations, all pride, all fear of 
embarrassment or failure—these things just fall away in 
the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. 
Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I 
know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something 
to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not 
to follow your heart.
  The artful minimalism of the speech gave it 
simplicity, purity, and charm. Search where you will, 
from anthologies to YouTube, and you won’t find a 
better commencement address. Others may have been 
more important, such as George Marshall’s at Harvard 
in 1947 announcing a plan to rebuild Europe, but none 
has had more grace.

A Lion at Fifty
For his thirtieth and fortieth birthdays, Jobs had 
celebrated with the stars of Silicon Valley and other 
assorted celebrities. But when he turned fifty in 2005, 
after coming back from his cancer surgery, the surprise 
party that his wife arranged featured mainly his closest 
friends and professional colleagues. It was at the 
comfortable San Francisco home of some friends, and 
the great chef Alice Waters prepared salmon from 
Scotland along with couscous and a variety of gardenraised vegetables. “It was beautifully warm and 
intimate, with everyone and the kids all able to sit in one 
room,” Waters recalled. The entertainment was comedy 
improvisation done by the cast of Whose Line Is It 
Anyway?Jobs’s close friend Mike Slade was there, 
along with colleagues from Apple and Pixar, including 
Lasseter, Cook, Schiller, Clow, Rubinstein, and 
Tevanian.
Cook had done a good job running the company 
during Jobs’s absence. He kept Apple’s temperamental 
actors performing well, and he avoided stepping into 
the limelight. Jobs liked strong personalities, up to a 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 597
point, but he had never truly empowered a deputy or 
shared the stage. It was hard to be his understudy. You 
were damned if you shone, and damned if you didn’t. 
Cook had managed to navigate those shoals. He was 
calm and decisive when in command, but he didn’t 
seek any notice or acclaim for himself. “Some people 
resent the fact that Steve gets credit for everything, but 
I’ve never given a rat’s ass about that,” said Cook. 
“Frankly speaking, I’d prefer my name never be in the 
paper.”
When Jobs returned from his medical leave, Cook 
resumed his role as the person who kept the moving 
parts at Apple tightly meshed and remained unfazed by 
Jobs’s tantrums. “What I learned about Steve was that 
people mistook some of his comments as ranting or 
negativism, but it was really just the way he showed 
passion. So that’s how I processed it, and I never took 
issues personally.” In many ways he was Jobs’s mirror 
image: unflappable, steady in his moods, and (as the 
thesaurus in the NeXT would have noted) saturnine 
rather than mercurial. “I’m a good negotiator, but he’s 
probably better than me because he’s a cool customer,” 
Jobs later said. After adding a bit more praise, he 
quietly added a reservation, one that was serious but 
rarely spoken: “But Tim’s not a product person, per se.”
In the fall of 2005, after returning from his medical 
leave, Jobs tapped Cook to become Apple’s chief 
operating officer. They were flying together to Japan. 
Jobs didn’t really askCook; he simply turned to him and 
said, “I’ve decided to make you COO.”
Around that time, Jobs’s old friends Jon 
Rubinstein and Avie Tevanian, the hardware and 
software lieutenants who had been recruited during the 
1997 restoration, decided to leave. In Tevanian’s case, 
he had made a lot of money and was ready to quit 
working. “Avie is a brilliant guy and a nice guy, much 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 598
more grounded than Ruby and doesn’t carry the big 
ego,” said Jobs. “It was a huge loss for us when Avie 
left. He’s a one-of-a-kind person—a genius.”
Rubinstein’s case was a little more contentious. 
He was upset by Cook’s ascendency and frazzled after 
working for nine years under Jobs. Their shouting 
matches became more frequent. There was also a 
substantive issue: Rubinstein was repeatedly clashing 
with Jony Ive, who used to work for him and now 
reported directly to Jobs. Ive was always pushing the 
envelope with designs that dazzled but were difficult to 
engineer. It was Rubinstein’s job to get the hardware 
built in a practical way, so he often balked. He was by 
nature cautious. “In the end, Ruby’s from HP,” said 
Jobs. “And he never delved deep, he wasn’t 
aggressive.”
