PIXAR
Technology Meets Art
Lucasfilm’s Computer Division
When Jobs was losing his footing at Apple in the 
summer of 1985, he went for a walk with Alan Kay, who 
had been at Xerox PARC and was then an Apple 
Fellow. Kay knew that Jobs was interested in the 
intersection of creativity and technology, so he 
suggested they go see a friend of his, Ed Catmull, who 
was running the computer division of George Lucas’s 
film studio. They rented a limo and rode up to Marin 
County to the edge of Lucas’s Skywalker Ranch, where 
Catmull and his little computer division were based. “I 
was blown away, and I came back and tried to convince 
Sculley to buy it for Apple,” Jobs recalled. “But the folks 
running Apple weren’t interested, and they were busy 
kicking me out anyway.”
The Lucasfilm computer division made hardware 
and software for rendering digital images, and it also 
had a group of computer animators making shorts, 
which was led by a talented cartoon-loving executive 
named John Lasseter. Lucas, who had completed his 
first Star Warstrilogy, was embroiled in a contentious 
divorce, and he needed to sell off the division. He told 
Catmull to find a buyer as soon as possible.
After a few potential purchasers balked in the fall 
of 1985, Catmull and his colleague Alvy Ray Smith 
decided to seek investors so that they could buy the 
division themselves. So they called Jobs, arranged 
another meeting, and drove down to his Woodside 
house. After railing for a while about the perfidies and 
idiocies of Sculley, Jobs proposed that he buy their 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 317
Lucasfilm division outright. Catmull and Smith 
demurred: They wanted an investor, not a new owner. 
But it soon became clear that there was a middle 
ground: Jobs could buy a majority of the division and 
serve as chairman but allow Catmull and Smith to run it.
“I wanted to buy it because I was really into 
computer graphics,” Jobs recalled. “I realized they were 
way ahead of others in combining art and technology, 
which is what I’ve always been interested in.” He 
offered to pay Lucas $5 million plus invest another $5 
million to capitalize the division as a stand-alone 
company. That was far less than Lucas had been 
asking, but the timing was right. They decided to 
negotiate a deal.
The chief financial officer at Lucasfilm found Jobs 
arrogant and prickly, so when it came time to hold a 
meeting of all the players, he told Catmull, “We have to 
establish the right pecking order.” The plan was to 
gather everyone in a room with Jobs, and then the CFO 
would come in a few minutes late to establish that he 
was the person running the meeting. “But a funny thing 
happened,” Catmull recalled. “Steve started the 
meeting on time without the CFO, and by the time the 
CFO walked in Steve was already in control of the 
meeting.”
Jobs met only once with George Lucas, who 
warned him that the people in the division cared more 
about making animated movies than they did about 
making computers. “You know, these guys are hell-bent 
on animation,” Lucas told him. Lucas later recalled, “I 
did warn him that was basically Ed and John’s agenda. 
I think in his heart he bought the company because that 
was his agenda too.”
 The final agreement was reached in January 
1986. It provided that, for his $10 million investment, 
Jobs would own 70% of the company, with the rest of 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 318
the stock distributed to Ed Catmull, Alvy Ray Smith, and 
the thirty-eight other founding employees, down to the 
receptionist. The division’s most important piece of 
hardware was called the Pixar Image Computer, and 
from it the new company took its name.
For a while Jobs let Catmull and Smith run Pixar 
without much interference. Every month or so they 
would gather for a board meeting, usually at NeXT 
headquarters, where Jobs would focus on the finances 
and strategy. Nevertheless, by dint of his personality 
and controlling instincts, Jobs was soon playing a 
stronger role. He spewed out a stream of ideas—some 
reasonable, others wacky—about what Pixar’s 
hardware and software could become. And on his 
occasional visits to the Pixar offices, he was an 
inspiring presence. “I grew up a Southern Baptist, and 
we had revival meetings with mesmerizing but corrupt 
preachers,” recounted Alvy Ray Smith. “Steve’s got it: 
the power of the tongue and the web of words that 
catches people up. We were aware of this when we had 
board meetings, so we developed signals—nose 
scratching or ear tugs—for when someone had been 
caught up in Steve’s distortion field and he needed to 
be tugged back to reality.”
Jobs had always appreciated the virtue of 
integrating hardware and software, which is what Pixar 
did with its Image Computer and rendering software. It 
also produced creative content, such as animated films 
and graphics. All three elements benefited from Jobs’s 
combination of artistic creativity and technological 
geekiness. “Silicon Valley folks don’t really respect 
Hollywood creative types, and the Hollywood folks think 
that tech folks are people you hire and never have to 
meet,” Jobs later said. “Pixar was one place where both 
cultures were respected.”
Initially the revenue was supposed to come from 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 319
the hardware side. The Pixar Image Computer sold for 
$125,000. The primary customers were animators and 
graphic designers, but the machine also soon found 
specialized markets in the medical industry (CAT scan 
data could be rendered in three-dimensional graphics) 
and intelligence fields (for rendering information from 
reconnaissance flights and satellites). Because of the 
sales to the National Security Agency, Jobs had to get a 
security clearance, which must have been fun for the 
FBI agent assigned to vet him. At one point, a Pixar 
executive recalled, Jobs was called by the investigator 
to go over the drug use questions, which he answered 
unabashedly. “The last time I used that . . . ,” he would 
say, or on occasion he would answer that no, he had 
actually never tried that particular drug.
Jobs pushed Pixar to build a lower-cost version of 
the computer that would sell for around $30,000. He 
insisted that Hartmut Esslinger design it, despite 
protests by Catmull and Smith about his fees. It ended 
up looking like the original Pixar Image Computer, 
which was a cube with a round dimple in the middle, 
but it had Esslinger’s signature thin grooves.
Jobs wanted to sell Pixar’s computers to a mass 
market, so he had the Pixar folks open up sales offices
—for which he approved the design—in major cities, on 
the theory that creative people would soon come up 
with all sorts of ways to use the machine. “My view is 
that people are creative animals and will figure out 
clever new ways to use tools that the inventor never 
imagined,” he later said. “I thought that would happen 
with the Pixar computer, just as it did with the Mac.” But 
the machine never took hold with regular consumers. It 
cost too much, and there were not many software 
programs for it.
On the software side, Pixar had a rendering 
program, known as Reyes (Renders everything you 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 320
ever saw), for making 3-D graphics and images. After 
Jobs became chairman, the company created a new 
language and interface, named RenderMan, that it 
hoped would become a standard for 3-D graphics 
rendering, just as Adobe’s PostScript was for laser 
printing.
As he had with the hardware, Jobs decided that 
they should try to find a mass market, rather than just a 
specialized one, for the software they made. He was 
never content to aim only at the corporate or high-end 
specialized markets. “He would have these great 
visions of how RenderMan could be for everyman,” 
recalled Pam Kerwin, Pixar’s marketing director. “He 
kept coming up with ideas about how ordinary people 
would use it to make amazing 3-D graphics and 
photorealistic images.” The Pixar team would try to 
dissuade him by saying that RenderMan was not as 
easy to use as, say, Excel or Adobe Illustrator. Then 
Jobs would go to a whiteboard and show them how to 
make it simpler and more user-friendly. “We would be 
nodding our heads and getting excited and say, ‘Yes, 
yes, this will be great!’” Kerwin recalled. “And then he 
would leave and we would consider it for a moment and 
then say, ‘What the heck was he thinking!’ He was so 
weirdly charismatic that you almost had to get 
deprogrammed after you talked to him.” As it turned out, 
average consumers were not craving expensive 
software that would let them render realistic images. 
RenderMan didn’t take off.
There was, however, one company that was eager 
to automate the rendering of animators’ drawings into 
color images for film. When Roy Disney led a board 
revolution at the company that his uncle Walt had 
founded, the new CEO, Michael Eisner, asked what role 
he wanted. Disney said that he would like to revive the 
company’s venerable but fading animation department. 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 321
One of his first initiatives was to look at ways to 
computerize the process, and Pixar won the contract. It 
created a package of customized hardware and 
software known as CAPS, Computer Animation 
Production System. It was first used in 1988 for the final 
scene of The Little Mermaid, in which King Triton waves 
good-bye to Ariel. Disney bought dozens of Pixar Image 
Computers as CAPS became an integral part of its 
production.
Animation
The digital animation business at Pixar—the group 
that made little animated films—was originally just a 
sideline, its main purpose being to show off the 
hardware and software of the company. It was run by 
John Lasseter, a man whose childlike face and 
demeanor masked an artistic perfectionism that rivaled 
that of Jobs. Born in Hollywood, Lasseter grew up 
loving Saturday morning cartoon shows. In ninth grade, 
he wrote a report on the history of Disney Studios, and 
he decided then how he wished to spend his life.
When he graduated from high school, Lasseter 
enrolled in the animation program at the California 
Institute of the Arts, founded by Walt Disney. In his 
summers and spare time, he researched the Disney 
archives and worked as a guide on the Jungle Cruise 
ride at Disneyland. The latter experience taught him the 
value of timing and pacing in telling a story, an 
important but difficult concept to master when creating, 
frame by frame, animated footage. He won the Student 
Academy Award for the short he made in his junior 
year, Lady and the Lamp, which showed his debt to 
Disney films and foreshadowed his signature talent for 
infusing inanimate objects such as lamps with human 
personalities. After graduation he took the job for which 
he was destined: as an animator at Disney Studios.
Except it didn’t work out. “Some of us younger 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 322
guys wanted to bring Star Wars–level quality to the art 
of animation, but we were held in check,” Lasseter 
recalled. “I got disillusioned, then I got caught in a feud 
between two bosses, and the head animation guy fired 
me.” So in 1984 Ed Catmull and Alvy Ray Smith were 
able to recruit him to work where Star Wars–level 
quality was being defined, Lucasfilm. It was not certain 
that George Lucas, already worried about the cost of his 
computer division, would really approve of hiring a fulltime animator, so Lasseter was given the title “interface 
designer.”
After Jobs came onto the scene, he and Lasseter 
began to share their passion for graphic design. “I was 
the only guy at Pixar who was an artist, so I bonded with 
Steve over his design sense,” Lasseter said. He was a 
gregarious, playful, and huggable man who wore 
flowery Hawaiian shirts, kept his office cluttered with 
vintage toys, and loved cheeseburgers. Jobs was a 
prickly, whip-thin vegetarian who favored austere and 
uncluttered surroundings. But they were actually wellsuited for each other. Lasseter was an artist, so Jobs 
treated him deferentially, and Lasseter viewed Jobs, 
correctly, as a patron who could appreciate artistry and 
knew how it could be interwoven with technology and 
commerce.
Jobs and Catmull decided that, in order to show off 
their hardware and software, Lasseter should produce 
another short animated film in 1986 for SIGGRAPH, the 
annual computer graphics conference. At the time, 
Lasseter was using the Luxo lamp on his desk as a 
model for graphic rendering, and he decided to turn 
Luxo into a lifelike character. A friend’s young child 
inspired him to add Luxo Jr., and he showed a few test 
frames to another animator, who urged him to make 
sure he told a story. Lasseter said he was making only 
a short, but the animator reminded him that a story can 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 323
be told even in a few seconds. Lasseter took the lesson 
to heart. Luxo Jr.ended up being just over two minutes; 
it told the tale of a parent lamp and a child lamp 
pushing a ball back and forth until the ball bursts, to the 
child’s dismay.
Jobs was so excited that he took time off from the 
pressures at NeXT to fly down with Lasseter to 
SIGGRAPH, which was being held in Dallas that 
August. “It was so hot and muggy that when we’d walk 
outside the air hit us like a tennis racket,” Lasseter 
recalled. There were ten thousand people at the trade 
show, and Jobs loved it. Artistic creativity energized 
him, especially when it was connected to technology.
There was a long line to get into the auditorium 
where the films were being screened, so Jobs, not one 
to wait his turn, fast-talked their way in first. Luxo Jr.got 
a prolonged standing ovation and was named the best 
film. “Oh, wow!” Jobs exclaimed at the end. “I really get 
this, I get what it’s all about.” As he later explained, “Our 
film was the only one that had art to it, not just good 
technology. Pixar was about making that combination, 
just as the Macintosh had been.”
Luxo Jr.was nominated for an Academy Award, 
and Jobs flew down to Los Angeles to be there for the 
ceremony. It didn’t win, but Jobs became committed to 
making new animated shorts each year, even though 
there was not much of a business rationale for doing so. 
As times got tough at Pixar, he would sit through brutal 
budget-cutting meetings showing no mercy. Then 
Lasseter would ask that the money they had just saved 
be used for his next film, and Jobs would agree.
Tin Toy
Not all of Jobs’s relationships at Pixar were as 
good. His worst clash came with Catmull’s cofounder, 
Alvy Ray Smith. From a Baptist background in rural 
north Texas, Smith became a free-spirited hippie 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 324
computer imaging engineer with a big build, big laugh, 
and big personality—and occasionally an ego to match. 
“Alvy just glows, with a high color, friendly laugh, and a 
whole bunch of groupies at conferences,” said Pam 
Kerwin. “A personality like Alvy’s was likely to ruffle 
Steve. They are both visionaries and high energy and 
high ego. Alvy is not as willing to make peace and 
overlook things as Ed was.”
Smith saw Jobs as someone whose charisma and 
ego led him to abuse power. “He was like a 
televangelist,” Smith said. “He wanted to control people, 
but I would not be a slave to him, which is why we 
clashed. Ed was much more able to go with the flow.” 
Jobs would sometimes assert his dominance at a 
meeting by saying something outrageous or untrue. 
Smith took great joy in calling him on it, and he would 
do so with a large laugh and a smirk. This did not 
endear him to Jobs.
One day at a board meeting, Jobs started berating 
Smith and other top Pixar executives for the delay in 
getting the circuit boards completed for the new version 
of the Pixar Image Computer. At the time, NeXT was 
also very late in completing its own computer boards, 
and Smith pointed that out: “Hey, you’re even later with 
your NeXT boards, so quit jumping on us.” Jobs went 
ballistic, or in Smith’s phrase, “totally nonlinear.” When 
Smith was feeling attacked or confrontational, he 
tended to lapse into his southwestern accent. Jobs 
started parodying it in his sarcastic style. “It was a bully 
tactic, and I exploded with everything I had,” Smith 
recalled. “Before I knew it, we were in each other’s 
faces—about three inches apart—screaming at each 
other.”
Jobs was very possessive about control of the 
whiteboard during a meeting, so the burly Smith 
pushed past him and started writing on it. “You can’t do 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 325
that!” Jobs shouted.
“What?” responded Smith, “I can’t write on your 
whiteboard? Bullshit.” At that point Jobs stormed out.
Smith eventually resigned to form a new company 
to make software for digital drawing and image editing. 
Jobs refused him permission to use some code he had 
created while at Pixar, which further inflamed their 
enmity. “Alvy eventually got what he needed,” said 
Catmull, “but he was very stressed for a year and 
developed a lung infection.” In the end it worked out 
well enough; Microsoft eventually bought Smith’s 
company, giving him the distinction of being a founder 
of one company that was sold to Jobs and another that 
was sold to Gates.
Ornery in the best of times, Jobs became 
particularly so when it became clear that all three Pixar 
endeavors—hardware, software, and animated content
—were losing money. “I’d get these plans, and in the 
end I kept having to put in more money,” he recalled. 
He would rail, but then write the check. Having been 
ousted at Apple and flailing at NeXT, he couldn’t afford 
a third strike.
To stem the losses, he ordered a round of deep 
layoffs, which he executed with his typical empathy 
deficiency. As Pam Kerwin put it, he had “neither the 
emotional nor financial runway to be decent to people 
he was letting go.” Jobs insisted that the firings be done 
immediately, with no severance pay. Kerwin took Jobs 
on a walk around the parking lot and begged that the 
employees be given at least two weeks notice. “Okay,” 
he shot back, “but the notice is retroactive from two 
weeks ago.” Catmull was in Moscow, and Kerwin put in 
frantic calls to him. When he returned, he was able to 
institute a meager severance plan and calm things 
down just a bit.
At one point the members of the Pixar animation 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 326
team were trying to convince Intel to let them make 
some of its commercials, and Jobs became impatient. 
During a meeting, in the midst of berating an Intel 
marketing director, he picked up the phone and called 
CEO Andy Grove directly. Grove, still playing mentor, 
tried to teach Jobs a lesson: He supported his Intel 
manager. “I stuck by my employee,” he recalled. “Steve 
doesn’t like to be treated like a supplier.”
Grove also played mentor when Jobs proposed 
that Pixar give Intel suggestions on how to improve the 
capacity of its processors to render 3-D graphics. When 
the engineers at Intel accepted the offer, Jobs sent an 
email back saying Pixar would need to be paid for its 
advice. Intel’s chief engineer replied, “We have not 
entered into any financial arrangement in exchange for 
good ideas for our microprocessors in the past and 
have no intention for the future.” Jobs forwarded the 
answer to Grove, saying that he found the engineer’s 
response to be “extremely arrogant, given Intel’s dismal 
showing in understanding computer graphics.” Grove 
sent Jobs a blistering reply, saying that sharing ideas is 
“what friendly companies and friends do for each other.” 
Grove added that he had often freely shared ideas with 
Jobs in the past and that Jobs should not be so 
mercenary. Jobs relented. “I have many faults, but one 
of them is not ingratitude,” he responded. “Therefore, I 
have changed my position 180 degrees—we will freely 
help. Thanks for the clearer perspective.”
Pixar was able to create some powerful software 
products aimed at average consumers, or at least those 
average consumers who shared Jobs’s passion for 
designing things. Jobs still hoped that the ability to 
make super-realistic 3-D images at home would 
become part of the desktop publishing craze. Pixar’s 
Showplace, for example, allowed users to change the 
shadings on the 3-D objects they created so that they 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 327
could display them from various angles with 
appropriate shadows. Jobs thought it was incredibly 
compelling, but most consumers were content to live 
without it. It was a case where his passions misled him: 
The software had so many amazing features that it 
lacked the simplicity Jobs usually demanded. Pixar 
couldn’t compete with Adobe, which was making 
software that was less sophisticated but far less 
complicated and expensive.
Even as Pixar’s hardware and software product 
lines foundered, Jobs kept protecting the animation 
group. It had become for him a little island of magical 
artistry that gave him deep emotional pleasure, and he 
was willing to nurture it and bet on it. In the spring of 
1988 cash was running so short that he convened a 
meeting to decree deep spending cuts across the 
board. When it was over, Lasseter and his animation 
group were almost too afraid to ask Jobs about 
authorizing some extra money for another short. Finally, 
they broached the topic and Jobs sat silent, looking 
skeptical. It would require close to $300,000 more out of 
his pocket. After a few minutes, he asked if there were 
any storyboards. Catmull took him down to the 
animation offices, and once Lasseter started his show—
displaying his boards, doing the voices, showing his 
passion for his product—Jobs started to warm up.
The story was about Lasseter’s love, classic toys. It 
was told from the perspective of a toy one-man band 
named Tinny, who meets a baby that charms and 
terrorizes him. Escaping under the couch, Tinny finds 
other frightened toys, but when the baby hits his head 
and cries, Tinny goes back out to cheer him up.
Jobs said he would provide the money. “I believed 
in what John was doing,” he later said. “It was art. He 
cared, and I cared. I always said yes.” His only 
comment at the end of Lasseter’s presentation was, “All 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 328
I ask of you, John, is to make it great.”
Tin Toywent on to win the 1988 Academy Award 
for animated short films, the first computer-generated 
film to do so. To celebrate, Jobs took Lasseter and his 
team to Greens, a vegetarian restaurant in San 
Francisco. Lasseter grabbed the Oscar, which was in 
the center of the table, held it aloft, and toasted Jobs by 
saying, “All you asked is that we make a great movie.”
The new team at Disney—Michael Eisner the CEO 
and Jeffrey Katzenberg in the film division—began a 
quest to get Lasseter to come back. They liked Tin Toy, 
and they thought that something more could be done 
with animated stories of toys that come alive and have 
human emotions. But Lasseter, grateful for Jobs’s faith 
in him, felt that Pixar was the only place where he could 
create a new world of computer-generated animation. 
He told Catmull, “I can go to Disney and be a director, 
or I can stay here and make history.” So Disney began 
talking about making a production deal with Pixar. 
“Lasseter’s shorts were really breathtaking both in 
storytelling and in the use of technology,” recalled 
Katzenberg. “I tried so hard to get him to Disney, but he 
was loyal to Steve and Pixar. So if you can’t beat them, 
join them. We decided to look for ways we could join up 
with Pixar and have them make a film about toys for us.”
By this point Jobs had poured close to $50 million 
of his own money into Pixar—more than half of what he 
had pocketed when he cashed out of Apple—and he 
was still losing money at NeXT. He was hard-nosed 
about it; he forced all Pixar employees to give up their 
options as part of his agreement to add another round 
of personal funding in 1991. But he was also a romantic 
in his love for what artistry and technology could do 
together. His belief that ordinary consumers would love 
to do 3-D modeling on Pixar software turned out to be 
wrong, but that was soon replaced by an instinct that 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 329
turned out to be right: that combining great art and 
digital technology would transform animated films more 
than anything had since 1937, when Walt Disney had 
given life to Snow White.
Looking back, Jobs said that, had he known more, 
he would have focused on animation sooner and not 
worried about pushing the company’s hardware or 
software applications. On the other hand, had he known 
the hardware and software would never be profitable, 
he would not have taken over Pixar. “Life kind of 
snookered me into doing that, and perhaps it was for 
the better.”
TOY STORY
  Buzz and Woody to the Rescue
   Jeffrey Katzenberg
“It’s kind of fun to do the impossible,” Walt Disney 
once said. That was the type of attitude that appealed to 
Jobs. He admired Disney’s obsession with detail and 
design, and he felt that there was a natural fit between 
Pixar and the movie studio that Disney had founded.
The Walt Disney Company had licensed Pixar’s 
Computer Animation Production System, and that made 
it the largest customer for Pixar’s computers. One day 
Jeffrey Katzenberg, the head of Disney’s film division, 
invited Jobs down to the Burbank studios to see the 
technology in operation. As the Disney folks were 
showing him around, Jobs turned to Katzenberg and 
asked, “Is Disney happy with Pixar?” With great 
exuberance, Katzenberg answered yes. Then Jobs 
asked, “Do you think we at Pixar are happy with 
Disney?” Katzenberg said he assumed so. “No, we’re 
not,” Jobs said. “We want to do a film with you. That 
would make us happy.”
Katzenberg was willing. He admired John 
Lasseter’s animated shorts and had tried 
unsuccessfully to lure him back to Disney. So 
Katzenberg invited the Pixar team down to discuss 
partnering on a film. When Catmull, Jobs, and Lasseter 
got settled at the conference table, Katzenberg was 
forthright. “John, since you won’t come work for me,” he 
said, looking at Lasseter, “I’m going to make it work this 
way.”
Just as the Disney company shared some traits 
with Pixar, so Katzenberg shared some with Jobs. Both 
were charming when they wanted to be, and 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 375
aggressive (or worse) when it suited their moods or 
interests. Alvy Ray Smith, on the verge of quitting Pixar, 
was at the meeting. “Katzenberg and Jobs impressed 
me as a lot alike,” he recalled. “Tyrants with an amazing 
gift of gab.” Katzenberg was delightfully aware of this. 
“Everybody thinks I’m a tyrant,” he told the Pixar team. “I 
ama tyrant. But I’m usually right.” One can imagine 
Jobs saying the same.
As befitted two men of equal passion, the 
negotiations between Katzenberg and Jobs took 
months. Katzenberg insisted that Disney be given the 
rights to Pixar’s proprietary technology for making 3-D 
animation. Jobs refused, and he ended up winning that 
engagement. Jobs had his own demand: Pixar would 
have part ownership of the film and its characters, 
sharing control of both video rights and sequels. “If 
that’s what you want,” Katzenberg said, “we can just 
quit talking and you can leave now.” Jobs stayed, 
conceding that point.
Lasseter was riveted as he watched the two wiry 
and tightly wound principals parry and thrust. “Just to 
see Steve and Jeffrey go at it, I was in awe,” he 
recalled. “It was like a fencing match. They were both 
masters.” But Katzenberg went into the match with a 
saber, Jobs with a mere foil. Pixar was on the verge of 
bankruptcy and needed a deal with Disney far more 
than Disney needed a deal with Pixar. Plus, Disney 
could afford to finance the whole enterprise, and Pixar 
couldn’t. The result was a deal, struck in May 1991, by 
which Disney would own the picture and its characters 
outright, have creative control, and pay Pixar about 
12.5% of the ticket revenues. It had the option (but not 
the obligation) to do Pixar’s next two films and the right 
to make (with or without Pixar) sequels using the 
characters in the film. Disney could also kill the film at 
any time with only a small penalty.
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 376
The idea that John Lasseter pitched was called 
“Toy Story.” It sprang from a belief, which he and Jobs 
shared, that products have an essence to them, a 
purpose for which they were made. If the object were to 
have feelings, these would be based on its desire to 
fulfill its essence. The purpose of a glass, for example, 
is to hold water; if it had feelings, it would be happy 
when full and sad when empty. The essence of a 
computer screen is to interface with a human. The 
essence of a unicycle is to be ridden in a circus. As for 
toys, their purpose is to be played with by kids, and thus 
their existential fear is of being discarded or upstaged 
by newer toys. So a buddy movie pairing an old favorite 
toy with a shiny new one would have an essential 
drama to it, especially when the action revolved around 
the toys’ being separated from their kid. The original 
treatment began, “Everyone has had the traumatic 
childhood experience of losing a toy. Our story takes 
the toy’s point of view as he loses and tries to regain the 
single thing most important to him: to be played with by 
children. This is the reason for the existence of all toys. 
It is the emotional foundation of their existence.”
The two main characters went through many 
iterations before they ended up as Buzz Lightyear and 
Woody. Every couple of weeks, Lasseter and his team 
would put together their latest set of storyboards or 
footage to show the folks at Disney. In early screen 
tests, Pixar showed off its amazing technology by, for 
example, producing a scene of Woody rustling around 
on top of a dresser while the light rippling in through a 
Venetian blind cast shadows on his plaid shirt—an 
effect that would have been almost impossible to render 
by hand. Impressing Disney with the plot, however, was 
more difficult. At each presentation by Pixar, 
Katzenberg would tear much of it up, barking out his 
detailed comments and notes. And a cadre of 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 377
clipboard-carrying flunkies was on hand to make sure 
every suggestion and whim uttered by Katzenberg 
received follow-up treatment.
Katzenberg’s big push was to add more edginess 
to the two main characters. It may be an animated 
movie called Toy Story, he said, but it should not be 
aimed only at children. “At first there was no drama, no 
real story, and no conflict,” Katzenberg recalled. He 
suggested that Lasseter watch some classic buddy 
movies, such as The Defiant Onesand 48 Hours, in 
which two characters with different attitudes are thrown 
together and have to bond. In addition, he kept pushing 
for what he called “edge,” and that meant making 
Woody’s character more jealous, mean, and belligerent 
toward Buzz, the new interloper in the toy box. “It’s a 
toy-eat-toy world,” Woody says at one point, after 
pushing Buzz out of a window.
After many rounds of notes from Katzenberg and 
other Disney execs, Woody had been stripped of almost 
all charm. In one scene he throws the other toys off the 
bed and orders Slinky to come help. When Slinky 
hesitates, Woody barks, “Who said your job was to 
think, spring-wiener?” Slinky then asks a question that 
the Pixar team members would soon be asking 
themselves: “Why is the cowboy so scary?” As Tom 
Hanks, who had signed up to be Woody’s voice, 
exclaimed at one point, “This guy’s a real jerk!”
Cut!
Lasseter and his Pixar team had the first half of the 
movie ready to screen by November 1993, so they 
brought it down to Burbank to show to Katzenberg and 
other Disney executives. Peter Schneider, the head of 
feature animation, had never been enamored of 
Katzenberg’s idea of having outsiders make animation 
for Disney, and he declared it a mess and ordered that 
production be stopped. Katzenberg agreed. “Why is this 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 378
so terrible?” he asked a colleague, Tom Schumacher. 
“Because it’s not their movie anymore,” Schumacher 
bluntly replied. He later explained, “They were following 
Katzenberg’s notes, and the project had been driven 
completely off-track.”
Lasseter realized that Schumacher was right. “I sat 
there and I was pretty much embarrassed with what 
was on the screen,” he recalled. “It was a story filled 
with the most unhappy, mean characters that I’ve ever 
seen.” He asked Disney for the chance to retreat back 
to Pixar and rework the script. Katzenberg was 
supportive.
Jobs did not insert himself much into the creative 
process. Given his proclivity to be in control, especially 
on matters of taste and design, this self-restraint was a 
testament to his respect for Lasseter and the other 
artists at Pixar—as well as for the ability of Lasseter and 
Catmull to keep him at bay. He did, however, help 
manage the relationship with Disney, and the Pixar 
team appreciated that. When Katzenberg and 
Schneider halted production on Toy Story, Jobs kept 
the work going with his own personal funding. And he 
took their side against Katzenberg. “He had Toy Story
all messed up,” Jobs later said. “He wanted Woody to 
be a bad guy, and when he shut us down we kind of 
kicked him out and said, ‘This isn’t what we want,’ and 
did it the way we always wanted.”
The Pixar team came back with a new script three 
months later. The character of Woody morphed from 
being a tyrannical boss of Andy’s other toys to being 
their wise leader. His jealousy after the arrival of Buzz 
Lightyear was portrayed more sympathetically, and it 
was set to the strains of a Randy Newman song, 
“Strange Things.” The scene in which Woody pushed 
Buzz out of the window was rewritten to make Buzz’s 
fall the result of an accident triggered by a little trick 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 379
Woody initiated involving a Luxo lamp. Katzenberg & 
Co. approved the new approach, and by February 1994 
the film was back in production.
Katzenberg had been impressed with Jobs’s focus 
on keeping costs under control. “Even in the early 
budgeting process, Steve was very eager to do it as 
efficiently as possible,” he said. But the $17 million 
production budget was proving inadequate, especially 
given the major revision that was necessary after 
Katzenberg had pushed them to make Woody too edgy. 
So Jobs demanded more in order to complete the film 
right. “Listen, we made a deal,” Katzenberg told him. 
“We gave you business control, and you agreed to do it 
for the amount we offered.” Jobs was furious. He would 
call Katzenberg by phone or fly down to visit him and 
be, in Katzenberg’s words, “as wildly relentless as only 
Steve can be.” Jobs insisted that Disney was liable for 
the cost overruns because Katzenberg had so badly 
mangled the original concept that it required extra work 
to restore things. “Wait a minute!” Katzenberg shot back. 
“We were helping you. You got the benefit of our 
creative help, and now you want us to pay you for that.” 
It was a case of two control freaks arguing about who 
was doing the other a favor.
Ed Catmull, more diplomatic than Jobs, was able 
to reach a compromise new budget. “I had a much more 
positive view of Jeffrey than some of the folks working 
on the film did,” he said. But the incident did prompt 
Jobs to start plotting about how to have more leverage 
with Disney in the future. He did not like being a mere 
contractor; he liked being in control. That meant Pixar 
would have to bring its own funding to projects in the 
future, and it would need a new deal with Disney.
As the film progressed, Jobs became ever more 
excited about it. He had been talking to various 
companies, ranging from Hallmark to Microsoft, about 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 380
selling Pixar, but watching Woody and Buzz come to life 
made him realize that he might be on the verge of 
transforming the movie industry. As scenes from the 
movie were finished, he watched them repeatedly and 
had friends come by his home to share his new 
passion. “I can’t tell you the number of versions of Toy 
StoryI saw before it came out,” said Larry Ellison. “It 
eventually became a form of torture. I’d go over there 
and see the latest 10% improvement. Steve is 
obsessed with getting it right—both the story and the 
technology—and isn’t satisfied with anything less than 
perfection.”
Jobs’s sense that his investments in Pixar might 
actually pay off was reinforced when Disney invited him 
to attend a gala press preview of scenes from 
Pocahontasin January 1995 in a tent in Manhattan’s 
Central Park. At the event, Disney CEO Michael Eisner 
announced that Pocahontaswould have its premiere in 
front of 100,000 people on eighty-foot-high screens on 
the Great Lawn of Central Park. Jobs was a master 
showman who knew how to stage great premieres, but 
even he was astounded by this plan. Buzz Lightyear’s 
great exhortation—“To infinity and beyond!”—suddenly 
seemed worth heeding.
Jobs decided that the release of Toy Storythat 
November would be the occasion to take Pixar public. 
Even the usually eager investment bankers were 
dubious and said it couldn’t happen. Pixar had spent 
five years hemorrhaging money. But Jobs was 
determined. “I was nervous and argued that we should 
wait until after our second movie,” Lasseter recalled. 
“Steve overruled me and said we needed the cash so 
we could put up half the money for our films and 
renegotiate the Disney deal.”
To Infinity!
There were two premieres of Toy Storyin 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 381
November 1995. Disney organized one at El Capitan, a 
grand old theater in Los Angeles, and built a fun house 
next door featuring the characters. Pixar was given a 
handful of passes, but the evening and its celebrity 
guest list was very much a Disney production; Jobs did 
not even attend. Instead, the next night he rented the 
Regency, a similar theater in San Francisco, and held 
his own premiere. Instead of Tom Hanks and Steve 
Martin, the guests were Silicon Valley celebrities, such 
as Larry Ellison and Andy Grove. This was clearly 
Jobs’s show; he, not Lasseter, took the stage to 
introduce the movie.
The dueling premieres highlighted a festering 
issue: Was Toy Storya Disney or a Pixar movie? Was 
Pixar merely an animation contractor helping Disney 
make movies? Or was Disney merely a distributor and 
marketer helping Pixar roll out its movies? The answer 
was somewhere in between. The question would be 
whether the egos involved, mainly those of Michael 
Eisner and Steve Jobs, could get to such a partnership.
The stakes were raised when Toy Storyopened to 
blockbuster commercial and critical success. It 
recouped its cost the first weekend, with a domestic 
opening of $30 million, and it went on to become the 
top-grossing film of the year, beating Batman Forever
and Apollo 13, with $192 million in receipts 
domestically and a total of $362 million worldwide. 
According to the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, 
100% of the seventy-three critics surveyed gave it a 
positive review. Time’s Richard Corliss called it “the 
year’s most inventive comedy,” David Ansen of 
Newsweekpronounced it a “marvel,” and Janet Maslin 
of the New York Timesrecommended it both for 
children and adults as “a work of incredible cleverness 
in the best two-tiered Disney tradition.”
The only rub for Jobs was that reviewers such as 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 382
Maslin wrote of the “Disney tradition,” not the 
emergence of Pixar. After reading her review, he 
decided he had to go on the offensive to raise Pixar’s 
profile. When he and Lasseter went on the Charlie 
Roseshow, Jobs emphasized that Toy Storywas a 
Pixar movie, and he even tried to highlight the historic 
nature of a new studio being born. “Since Snow White
was released, every major studio has tried to break into 
the animation business, and until now Disney was the 
only studio that had ever made a feature animated film 
that was a blockbuster,” he told Rose. “Pixar has now 
become the second studio to do that.”
Jobs made a point of casting Disney as merely the 
distributor of a Pixar film. “He kept saying, ‘We at Pixar 
are the real thing and you Disney guys are shit,’” 
recalled Michael Eisner. “But we were the ones who 
made Toy Storywork. We helped shape the movie, and 
we pulled together all of our divisions, from our 
consumer marketers to the Disney Channel, to make it 
a hit.” Jobs came to the conclusion that the fundamental 
issue—Whose movie was it?—would have to be settled 
contractually rather than by a war of words. “After Toy 
Story’s success,” he said, “I realized that we needed to 
cut a new deal with Disney if we were ever to build a 
studio and not just be a work-for-hire place.” But in 
order to sit down with Disney on an equal basis, Pixar 
had to bring money to the table. That required a 
successful IPO.
The public offering occurred exactly one week 
after Toy Story’s opening. Jobs had gambled that the 
movie would be successful, and the risky bet paid off, 
big-time. As with the Apple IPO, a celebration was 
planned at the San Francisco office of the lead 
underwriter at 7 a.m., when the shares were to go on 
sale. The plan had originally been for the first shares to 
be offered at about $14, to be sure they would sell. Jobs 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 383
insisted on pricing them at $22, which would give the 
company more money if the offering was a success. It 
was, beyond even his wildest hopes. It exceeded 
Netscape as the biggest IPO of the year. In the first half 
hour, the stock shot up to $45, and trading had to be 
delayed because there were too many buy orders. It 
then went up even further, to $49, before settling back 
to close the day at $39.
Earlier that year Jobs had been hoping to find a 
buyer for Pixar that would let him merely recoup the $50 
million he had put in. By the end of the day the shares 
he had retained—80% of the company—were worth 
more than twenty times that, an astonishing $1.2 billion. 
That was about five times what he’d made when Apple 
went public in 1980. But Jobs told John Markoff of the 
New York Timesthat the money did not mean much to 
him. “There’s no yacht in my future,” he said. “I’ve never 
done this for the money.”
The successful IPO meant that Pixar would no 
longer have to be dependent on Disney to finance its 
movies. That was just the leverage Jobs wanted. 
“Because we could now fund half the cost of our 
movies, I could demand half the profits,” he recalled. 
“But more important, I wanted co-branding. These were 
to be Pixar as well as Disney movies.”
Jobs flew down to have lunch with Eisner, who 
was stunned at his audacity. They had a three-picture 
deal, and Pixar had made only one. Each side had its 
own nuclear weapons. After an acrimonious split with 
Eisner, Katzenberg had left Disney and become a 
cofounder, with Steven Spielberg and David Geffen, of 
DreamWorks SKG. If Eisner didn’t agree to a new deal 
with Pixar, Jobs said, then Pixar would go to another 
studio, such as Katzenberg’s, once the three-picture 
deal was done. In Eisner’s hand was the threat that 
Disney could, if that happened, make its own sequels to 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 384
Toy Story, using Woody and Buzz and all of the 
characters that Lasseter had created. “That would have 
been like molesting our children,” Jobs later recalled. 
“John started crying when he considered that 
possibility.”
So they hammered out a new arrangement. Eisner 
agreed to let Pixar put up half the money for future films 
and in return take half of the profits. “He didn’t think we 
could have many hits, so he thought he was saving 
himself some money,” said Jobs. “Ultimately that was 
great for us, because Pixar would have ten 
blockbusters in a row.” They also agreed on cobranding, though that took a lot of haggling to define. “I 
took the position that it’s a Disney movie, but eventually 
I relented,” Eisner recalled. “We start negotiating how 
big the letters in ‘Disney’ are going to be, how big is 
‘Pixar’ going to be, just like four-year-olds.” But by the 
beginning of 1997 they had a deal, for five films over 
the course of ten years, and even parted as friends, at 
least for the time being. “Eisner was reasonable and fair 
to me then,” Jobs later said. “But eventually, over the 
course of a decade, I came to the conclusion that he 
was a dark man.”
In a letter to Pixar shareholders, Jobs explained 
that winning the right to have equal branding with 
Disney on all the movies, as well as advertising and 
toys, was the most important aspect of the deal. “We 
want Pixar to grow into a brand that embodies the same 
level of trust as the Disney brand,” he wrote. “But in 
order for Pixar to earn this trust, consumers must know 
that Pixar is creating the films.” Jobs was known during 
his career for creating great products. But just as 
significant was his ability to create great companies 
with valuable brands. And he created two of the best of 
his era: Apple and Pixar.
