DESIGN PRINCIPLES
The Studio of Jobs and Ive
With Jony Ive and the sunflower iMac, 2002
Jony Ive
When Jobs gathered his top management for a 
pep talk just after he became iCEO in September 1997, 
sitting in the audience was a sensitive and passionate 
thirty-year-old Brit who was head of the company’s 
design team. Jonathan Ive, known to all as Jony, was 
planning to quit. He was sick of the company’s focus on 
profit maximization rather than product design. Jobs’s 
talk led him to reconsider. “I remember very clearly 
Steve announcing that our goal is not just to make 
money but to make great products,” Ive recalled. “The 
decisions you make based on that philosophy are 
fundamentally different from the ones we had been 
making at Apple.” Ive and Jobs would soon forge a 
bond that would lead to the greatest industrial design 
collaboration of their era.
Ive grew up in Chingford, a town on the northeast 
edge of London. His father was a silversmith who 
taught at the local college. “He’s a fantastic craftsman,” 
Ive recalled. “His Christmas gift to me would be one day 
of his time in his college workshop, during the 
Christmas break when no one else was there, helping 
me make whatever I dreamed up.” The only condition 
was that Jony had to draw by hand what they planned 
to make. “I always understood the beauty of things 
made by hand. I came to realize that what was really 
important was the care that was put into it. What I really 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 447
despise is when I sense some carelessness in a 
product.”
Ive enrolled in Newcastle Polytechnic and spent 
his spare time and summers working at a design 
consultancy. One of his creations was a pen with a little 
ball on top that was fun to fiddle with. It helped give the 
owner a playful emotional connection to the pen. For 
his thesis he designed a microphone and earpiece—in 
purest white plastic—to communicate with hearingimpaired kids. His flat was filled with foam models he 
had made to help him perfect the design. He also 
designed an ATM machine and a curved phone, both of 
which won awards from the Royal Society of Arts. 
Unlike some designers, he didn’t just make beautiful 
sketches; he also focused on how the engineering and 
inner components would work. He had an epiphany in 
college when he was able to design on a Macintosh. “I 
discovered the Mac and felt I had a connection with the 
people who were making this product,” he recalled. “I 
suddenly understood what a company was, or was 
supposed to be.”
After graduation Ive helped to build a design firm 
in London, Tangerine, which got a consulting contract 
with Apple. In 1992 he moved to Cupertino to take a job 
in the Apple design department. He became the head 
of the department in 1996, the year before Jobs 
returned, but wasn’t happy. Amelio had little 
appreciation for design. “There wasn’t that feeling of 
putting care into a product, because we were trying to 
maximize the money we made,” Ive said. “All they 
wanted from us designers was a model of what 
something was supposed to look like on the outside, 
and then engineers would make it as cheap as 
possible. I was about to quit.”
When Jobs took over and gave his pep talk, Ive 
decided to stick around. But Jobs at first looked around 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 448
for a world-class designer from the outside. He talked to 
Richard Sapper, who designed the IBM ThinkPad, and 
Giorgetto Giugiaro, who designed the Ferrari 250 and 
the Maserati Ghibli. But then he took a tour of Apple’s 
design studio and bonded with the affable, eager, and 
very earnest Ive. “We discussed approaches to forms 
and materials,” Ive recalled. “We were on the same 
wavelength. I suddenly understood why I loved the 
company.”
Ive reported, at least initially, to Jon Rubinstein, 
whom Jobs had brought in to head the hardware 
division, but he developed a direct and unusually 
strong relationship with Jobs. They began to have lunch 
together regularly, and Jobs would end his day by 
dropping by Ive’s design studio for a chat. “Jony had a 
special status,” said Laurene Powell. “He would come 
by our house, and our families became close. Steve is 
never intentionally wounding to him. Most people in 
Steve’s life are replaceable. But not Jony.”
Jobs described to me his respect for Ive:
The difference that Jony has made, not only at 
Apple but in the world, is huge. He is a wickedly 
intelligent person in all ways. He understands business 
concepts, marketing concepts. He picks stuff up just like 
that, click. He understands what we do at our core 
better than anyone. If I had a spiritual partner at Apple, 
it’s Jony. Jony and I think up most of the products 
together and then pull others in and say, “Hey, what do 
you think about this?” He gets the big picture as well as 
the most infinitesimal details about each product. And 
he understands that Apple is a product company. He’s 
not just a designer. That’s why he works directly for me. 
He has more operational power than anyone else at 
Apple except me. There’s no one who can tell him what 
to do, or to butt out. That’s the way I set it up.
    Like most designers, Ive enjoyed analyzing the 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 449
philosophy and the step-by-step thinking that went into 
a particular design. For Jobs, the process was more 
intuitive. He would point to models and sketches he 
liked and dump on the ones he didn’t. Ive would then 
take the cues and develop the concepts Jobs blessed.
Ive was a fan of the German industrial designer 
Dieter Rams, who worked for the electronics firm Braun. 
Rams preached the gospel of “Less but better,” 
Weniger aber besser, and likewise Jobs and Ive 
wrestled with each new design to see how much they 
could simplify it. Ever since Apple’s first brochure 
proclaimed “Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication,” 
Jobs had aimed for the simplicity that comes from 
conquering complexities, not ignoring them. “It takes a 
lot of hard work,” he said, “to make something simple, to 
truly understand the underlying challenges and come 
up with elegant solutions.”
In Ive, Jobs met his soul mate in the quest for true 
rather than surface simplicity. Sitting in his design 
studio, Ive described his philosophy:
Why do we assume that simple is good? Because 
with physical products, we have to feel we can 
dominate them. As you bring order to complexity, you 
find a way to make the product defer to you. Simplicity 
isn’t just a visual style. It’s not just minimalism or the 
absence of clutter. It involves digging through the depth 
of the complexity. To be truly simple, you have to go 
really deep. For example, to have no screws on 
something, you can end up having a product that is so 
convoluted and so complex. The better way is to go 
deeper with the simplicity, to understand everything 
about it and how it’s manufactured. You have to deeply 
understand the essence of a product in order to be able 
to get rid of the parts that are not essential.
    That was the fundamental principle Jobs and Ive 
shared. Design was not just about what a product 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 450
looked like on the surface. It had to reflect the product’s 
essence. “In most people’s vocabularies, design means 
veneer,” Jobs told Fortuneshortly after retaking the 
reins at Apple. “But to me, nothing could be further from 
the meaning of design. Design is the fundamental soul 
of a man-made creation that ends up expressing itself 
in successive outer layers.”
As a result, the process of designing a product at 
Apple was integrally related to how it would be 
engineered and manufactured. Ive described one of 
Apple’s Power Macs. “We wanted to get rid of anything 
other than what was absolutely essential,” he said. “To 
do so required total collaboration between the 
designers, the product developers, the engineers, and 
the manufacturing team. We kept going back to the 
beginning, again and again. Do we need that part? Can 
we get it to perform the function of the other four parts?”
The connection between the design of a product, 
its essence, and its manufacturing was illustrated for 
Jobs and Ive when they were traveling in France and 
went into a kitchen supply store. Ive picked up a knife 
he admired, but then put it down in disappointment. 
Jobs did the same. “We both noticed a tiny bit of glue 
between the handle and the blade,” Ive recalled. They 
talked about how the knife’s good design had been 
ruined by the way it was manufactured. “We don’t like to 
think of our knives as being glued together,” Ive said. 
“Steve and I care about things like that, which ruin the 
purity and detract from the essence of something like a 
utensil, and we think alike about how products should 
be made to look pure and seamless.”
At most other companies, engineering tends to 
drive design. The engineers set forth their specifications 
and requirements, and the designers then come up with 
cases and shells that will accommodate them. For Jobs, 
the process tended to work the other way. In the early 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 451
days of Apple, Jobs had approved the design of the 
case of the original Macintosh, and the engineers had 
to make their boards and components fit.
After he was forced out, the process at Apple 
reverted to being engineer-driven. “Before Steve came 
back, engineers would say ‘Here are the guts’—
processor, hard drive—and then it would go to the 
designers to put it in a box,” said Apple’s marketing 
chief Phil Schiller. “When you do it that way, you come 
up with awful products.” But when Jobs returned and 
forged his bond with Ive, the balance was again tilted 
toward the designers. “Steve kept impressing on us that 
the design was integral to what would make us great,” 
said Schiller. “Design once again dictated the 
engineering, not just vice versa.”
On occasion this could backfire, such as when 
Jobs and Ive insisted on using a solid piece of brushed 
aluminum for the edge of the iPhone 4 even when the 
engineers worried that it would compromise the 
antenna. But usually the distinctiveness of its designs—
for the iMac, the iPod, the iPhone, and the iPad—would 
set Apple apart and lead to its triumphs in the years 
after Jobs returned.
Inside the Studio
The design studio where Jony Ive reigns, on the 
ground floor of Two Infinite Loop on the Apple campus, 
is shielded by tinted windows and a heavy clad, locked 
door. Just inside is a glass-booth reception desk where 
two assistants guard access. Even high-level Apple 
employees are not allowed in without special 
permission. Most of my interviews with Jony Ive for this 
book were held elsewhere, but one day in 2010 he 
arranged for me to spend an afternoon touring the 
studio and talking about how he and Jobs collaborate 
there.
To the left of the entrance is a bullpen of desks 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 452
with young designers; to the right is the cavernous main 
room with six long steel tables for displaying and 
playing with works in progress. Beyond the main room 
is a computer-aided design studio, filled with 
workstations, that leads to a room with molding 
machines to turn what’s on the screens into foam 
models. Beyond that is a robot-controlled spraypainting chamber to make the models look real. The 
look is sparse and industrial, with metallic gray décor. 
Leaves from the trees outside cast moving patterns of 
light and shadows on the tinted windows. Techno and 
jazz play in the background.
Almost every day when Jobs was healthy and in 
the office, he would have lunch with Ive and then 
wander by the studio in the afternoon. As he entered, 
he could survey the tables and see the products in the 
pipeline, sense how they fit into Apple’s strategy, and 
inspect with his fingertips the evolving design of each. 
Usually it was just the two of them alone, while the other 
designers glanced up from their work but kept a 
respectful distance. If Jobs had a specific issue, he 
might call over the head of mechanical design or 
another of Ive’s deputies. If something excited him or 
sparked some thoughts about corporate strategy, he 
might ask the chief operating officer Tim Cook or the 
marketing head Phil Schiller to come over and join 
them. Ive described the usual process:
This great room is the one place in the company 
where you can look around and see everything we 
have in the works. When Steve comes in, he will sit at 
one of these tables. If we’re working on a new iPhone, 
for example, he might grab a stool and start playing with 
different models and feeling them in his hands, 
remarking on which ones he likes best. Then he will 
graze by the other tables, just him and me, to see where 
all the other products are heading. He can get a sense 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 453
of the sweep of the whole company, the iPhone and 
iPad, the iMac and laptop and everything we’re 
considering. That helps him see where the company is 
spending its energy and how things connect. And he 
can ask, “Does doing this make sense, because over 
here is where we are growing a lot?” or questions like 
that. He gets to see things in relationship to each other, 
which is pretty hard to do in a big company. Looking at 
the models on these tables, he can see the future for 
the next three years.
Much of the design process is a conversation, a 
back-and-forth as we walk around the tables and play 
with the models. He doesn’t like to read complex 
drawings. He wants to see and feel a model. He’s right. 
I get surprised when we make a model and then realize 
it’s rubbish, even though based on the CAD [computeraided design] renderings it looked great.
He loves coming in here because it’s calm and 
gentle. It’s a paradise if you’re a visual person. There 
are no formal design reviews, so there are no huge 
decision points. Instead, we can make the decisions 
fluid. Since we iterate every day and never have dumbass presentations, we don’t run into major 
disagreements.
  On this day Ive was overseeing the creation of a 
new European power plug and connector for the 
Macintosh. Dozens of foam models, each with the 
tiniest variation, have been cast and painted for 
inspection. Some would find it odd that the head of 
design would fret over something like this, but Jobs got 
involved as well. Ever since he had a special power 
supply made for the Apple II, Jobs has cared about not 
only the engineering but also the design of such parts. 
His name is listed on the patent for the white power 
brick used by the MacBook as well as its magnetic 
connector with its satisfying click. In fact he is listed as 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 454
one of the inventors for 212 different Apple patents in 
the United States as of the beginning of 2011.
Ive and Jobs have even obsessed over, and 
patented, the packaging for various Apple products. 
U.S. patent D558572, for example, granted on January 
1, 2008, is for the iPod Nano box, with four drawings 
showing how the device is nestled in a cradle when the 
box is opened. Patent D596485, issued on July 21, 
2009, is for the iPhone packaging, with its sturdy lid and 
little glossy plastic tray inside.
Early on, Mike Markkula had taught Jobs to 
“impute”—to understand that people dojudge a book 
by its cover—and therefore to make sure all the 
trappings and packaging of Apple signaled that there 
was a beautiful gem inside. Whether it’s an iPod Mini or 
a MacBook Pro, Apple customers know the feeling of 
opening up the well-crafted box and finding the product 
nestled in an inviting fashion. “Steve and I spend a lot of 
time on the packaging,” said Ive. “I love the process of 
unpacking something. You design a ritual of unpacking 
to make the product feel special. Packaging can be 
theater, it can create a story.”
Ive, who has the sensitive temperament of an 
artist, at times got upset with Jobs for taking too much 
credit, a habit that has bothered other colleagues over 
the years. His personal feelings for Jobs were so 
intense that at times he got easily bruised. “He will go 
through a process of looking at my ideas and say, 
‘That’s no good. That’s not very good. I like that one,’” 
Ive said. “And later I will be sitting in the audience and 
he will be talking about it as if it was his idea. I pay 
maniacal attention to where an idea comes from, and I 
even keep notebooks filled with my ideas. So it hurts 
when he takes credit for one of my designs.” Ive also 
has bristled when outsiders portrayed Jobs as the only 
ideas guy at Apple. “That makes us vulnerable as a 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 455
company,” Ive said earnestly, his voice soft. But then he 
paused to recognize the role Jobs in fact played. “In so 
many other companies, ideas and great design get lost 
in the process,” he said. “The ideas that come from me 
and my team would have been completely irrelevant, 
nowhere, if Steve hadn’t been here to push us, work 
with us, and drive through all the resistance to turn our 
ideas into products.

THE iMAC
Hello (Again)
Back to the Future
 The first great design triumph to come from the 
Jobs-Ive collaboration was the iMac, a desktop 
computer aimed at the home consumer market that was 
introduced in May 1998. Jobs had certain 
specifications. It should be an all-in-one product, with 
keyboard and monitor and computer ready to use right 
out of the box. It should have a distinctive design that 
made a brand statement. And it should sell for $1,200 
or so. (Apple had no computer selling for less than 
$2,000 at the time.) “He told us to go back to the roots of 
the original 1984 Macintosh, an all-in-one consumer 
appliance,” recalled Schiller. “That meant design and 
engineering had to work together.”
The initial plan was to build a “network computer,” 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 458
a concept championed by Oracle’s Larry Ellison, which 
was an inexpensive terminal without a hard drive that 
would mainly be used to connect to the Internet and 
other networks. But Apple’s chief financial officer Fred 
Anderson led the push to make the product more robust 
by adding a disk drive so it could become a full-fledged 
desktop computer for the home. Jobs eventually 
agreed.
Jon Rubinstein, who was in charge of hardware, 
adapted the microprocessor and guts of the PowerMac 
G3, Apple’s high-end professional computer, for use in 
the proposed new machine. It would have a hard drive 
and a tray for compact disks, but in a rather bold move, 
Jobs and Rubinstein decided not to include the usual 
floppy disk drive. Jobs quoted the hockey star Wayne 
Gretzky’s maxim, “Skate where the puck’s going, not 
where it’s been.” He was a bit ahead of his time, but 
eventually most computers eliminated floppy disks.
Ive and his top deputy, Danny Coster, began to 
sketch out futuristic designs. Jobs brusquely rejected 
the dozen foam models they initially produced, but Ive 
knew how to guide him gently. Ive agreed that none of 
them was quite right, but he pointed out one that had 
promise. It was curved, playful looking, and did not 
seem like an unmovable slab rooted to the table. “It has 
a sense that it’s just arrived on your desktop or it’s just 
about to hop off and go somewhere,” he told Jobs.
By the next showing Ive had refined the playful 
model. This time Jobs, with his binary view of the world, 
raved that he loved it. He took the foam prototype and 
began carrying it around the headquarters with him, 
showing it in confidence to trusted lieutenants and 
board members. In its ads Apple was celebrating the 
glories of being able to think different, yet until now 
nothing had been proposed that was much different 
from existing computers. Finally, Jobs had something 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 459
new.
The plastic casing that Ive and Coster proposed 
was sea-green blue, later named bondi blue after the 
color of the water at a beach in Australia, and it was 
translucent so that you could see through to the inside 
of the machine. “We were trying to convey a sense of 
the computer being changeable based on your needs, 
to be like a chameleon,” said Ive. “That’s why we liked 
the translucency. You could have color but it felt so 
unstatic. And it came across as cheeky.”
Both metaphorically and in reality, the 
translucency connected the inner engineering of the 
computer to the outer design. Jobs had always insisted 
that the rows of chips on the circuit boards look neat, 
even though they would never be seen. Now they 
would be seen. The casing would make visible the care 
that had gone into making all components of the 
computer and fitting them together. The playful design 
would convey simplicity while also revealing the depths 
that true simplicity entails.
Even the simplicity of the plastic shell itself 
involved great complexity. Ive and his team worked with 
Apple’s Korean manufacturers to perfect the process of 
making the cases, and they even went to a jelly bean 
factory to study how to make translucent colors look 
enticing. The cost of each case was more than $60 per 
unit, three times that of a regular computer case. Other 
companies would probably have demanded 
presentations and studies to show whether the 
translucent case would increase sales enough to justify 
the extra cost. Jobs asked for no such analysis.
Topping off the design was the handle nestled into 
the iMac. It was more playful and semiotic than it was 
functional. This was a desktop computer; not many 
people were really going to carry it around. But as Ive 
later explained:
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 460
Back then, people weren’t comfortable with 
technology. If you’re scared of something, then you 
won’t touch it. I could see my mum being scared to 
touch it. So I thought, if there’s this handle on it, it makes 
a relationship possible. It’s approachable. It’s intuitive. It 
gives you permission to touch. It gives a sense of its 
deference to you. Unfortunately, manufacturing a 
recessed handle costs a lot of money. At the old Apple, I 
would have lost the argument. What was really great 
about Steve is that he saw it and said, “That’s cool!” I 
didn’t explain all the thinking, but he intuitively got it. He 
just knew that it was part of the iMac’s friendliness and 
playfulness.
  Jobs had to fend off the objections of the 
manufacturing engineers, supported by Rubinstein, 
who tended to raise practical cost considerations when 
faced with Ive’s aesthetic desires and various design 
whims. “When we took it to the engineers,” Jobs said, 
“they came up with thirty-eight reasons they couldn’t do 
it. And I said, ‘No, no, we’re doing this.’ And they said, 
‘Well, why?’ And I said, ‘Because I’m the CEO, and I 
think it can be done.’ And so they kind of grudgingly did 
it.”
Jobs asked Lee Clow and Ken Segall and others 
from the TBWAad team to fly up to see what he had in 
the works. He brought them into the guarded design 
studio and dramatically unveiled Ive’s translucent 
teardrop-shaped design, which looked like something 
from The Jetsons, the animated TV show set in the 
future. For a moment they were taken aback. “We were 
pretty shocked, but we couldn’t be frank,” Segall 
recalled. “We were really thinking, ‘Jesus, do they know 
what they are doing?’ It was so radical.” Jobs asked 
them to suggest names. Segall came back with five 
options, one of them “iMac.” Jobs didn’t like any of them 
at first, so Segall came up with another list a week later, 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 461
but he said that the agency still preferred “iMac.” Jobs 
replied, “I don’t hate it this week, but I still don’t like it.” 
He tried silk-screening it on some of the prototypes, and 
the name grew on him. And thus it became the iMac.
As the deadline for completing the iMac drew 
near, Jobs’s legendary temper reappeared in force, 
especially when he was confronting manufacturing 
issues. At one product review meeting, he learned that 
the process was going slowly. “He did one of his 
displays of awesome fury, and the fury was absolutely 
pure,” recalled Ive. He went around the table assailing 
everyone, starting with Rubinstein. “You know we’re 
trying to save the company here,” he shouted, “and you 
guys are screwing it up!”
Like the original Macintosh team, the iMac crew 
staggered to completion just in time for the big 
announcement. But not before Jobs had one last 
explosion. When it came time to rehearse for the launch 
presentation, Rubinstein cobbled together two working 
prototypes. Jobs had not seen the final product before, 
and when he looked at it onstage he saw a button on 
the front, under the display. He pushed it and the CD 
tray opened. “What the fuck is this?!?” he asked, though 
not as politely. “None of us said anything,” Schiller 
recalled, “because he obviously knew what a CD tray 
was.” So Jobs continued to rail. It was supposed to 
have a clean CD slot, he insisted, referring to the 
elegant slot drives that were already to be found in 
upscale cars. “Steve, this is exactly the drive I showed 
you when we talked about the components,” Rubinstein 
explained. “No, there was never a tray, just a slot,” Jobs 
insisted. Rubinstein didn’t back down. Jobs’s fury didn’t 
abate. “I almost started crying, because it was too late to 
do anything about it,” Jobs later recalled.
They suspended the rehearsal, and for a while it 
seemed as if Jobs might cancel the entire product 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 462
launch. “Ruby looked at me as if to say, ‘Am I crazy?’” 
Schiller recalled. “It was my first product launch with 
Steve and the first time I saw his mind-set of ‘If it’s not 
right we’re not launching it.’” Finally, they agreed to 
replace the tray with a slot drive for the next version of 
the iMac. “I’m only going to go ahead with the launch if 
you promise we’re going to go to slot mode as soon as 
possible,” Jobs said tearfully.
There was also a problem with the video he 
planned to show. In it, Jony Ive is shown describing his 
design thinking and asking, “What computer would the 
Jetsons have had? It was like, the future yesterday.” At 
that moment there was a two-second snippet from the 
cartoon show, showing Jane Jetson looking at a video 
screen, followed by another two-second clip of the 
Jetsons giggling by a Christmas tree. At a rehearsal a 
production assistant told Jobs they would have to 
remove the clips because Hanna-Barbera had not 
given permission to use them. “Keep it in,” Jobs barked 
at him. The assistant explained that there were rules 
against that. “I don’t care,” Jobs said. “We’re using it.” 
The clip stayed in.
Lee Clow was preparing a series of colorful 
magazine ads, and when he sent Jobs the page proofs 
he got an outraged phone call in response. The blue in 
the ad, Jobs insisted, was different from that of the iMac. 
“You guys don’t know what you’re doing!” Jobs 
shouted. “I’m going to get someone else to do the ads, 
because this is fucked up.” Clow argued back. 
Compare them, he said. Jobs, who was not in the office, 
insisted he was right and continued to shout. Eventually 
Clow got him to sit down with the original photographs. 
“I finally proved to him that the blue was the blue was 
the blue.” Years later, on a Steve Jobs discussion board 
on the website Gawker, the following tale appeared 
from someone who had worked at the Whole Foods 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 463
store in Palo Alto a few blocks from Jobs’s home: “I was 
shagging carts one afternoon when I saw this silver 
Mercedes parked in a handicapped spot. Steve Jobs 
was inside screaming at his car phone. This was right 
before the first iMac was unveiled and I’m pretty sure I 
could make out, ‘Not. Fucking. Blue. Enough!!!’”
As always, Jobs was compulsive in preparing for 
the dramatic unveiling. Having stopped one rehearsal 
because he was angry about the CD drive tray, he 
stretched out the other rehearsals to make sure the 
show would be stellar. He repeatedly went over the 
climactic moment when he would walk across the stage 
and proclaim, “Say hello to the new iMac.” He wanted 
the lighting to be perfect so that the translucence of the 
new machine would be vivid. But after a few runthroughs he was still unsatisfied, an echo of his 
obsession with stage lighting that Sculley had 
witnessed at the rehearsals for the original 1984 
Macintosh launch. He ordered the lights to be brighter 
and come on earlier, but that still didn’t please him. So 
he jogged down the auditorium aisle and slouched into 
a center seat, draping his legs over the seat in front. 
“Let’s keep doing it till we get it right, okay?” he said. 
They made another attempt. “No, no,” Jobs complained. 
“This isn’t working at all.” The next time, the lights were 
bright enough, but they came on too late. “I’m getting 
tired of asking about this,” Jobs growled. Finally, the 
iMac shone just right. “Oh! Right there! That’s great!” 
Jobs yelled.
A year earlier Jobs had ousted Mike Markkula, his 
early mentor and partner, from the board. But he was so 
proud of what he had wrought with the new iMac, and 
so sentimental about its connection to the original 
Macintosh, that he invited Markkula to Cupertino for a 
private preview. Markkula was impressed. His only 
objection was to the new mouse that Ive had designed. 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 464
It looked like a hockey puck, Markkula said, and people 
would hate it. Jobs disagreed, but Markkula was right. 
Otherwise the machine had turned out to be, as had its 
predecessor, insanely great.
The Launch, May 6, 1998
With the launch of the original Macintosh in 1984, 
Jobs had created a new kind of theater: the product 
debut as an epochal event, climaxed by a let-there-belight moment in which the skies part, a light shines 
down, the angels sing, and a chorus of the chosen 
faithful sings “Hallelujah.” For the grand unveiling of the 
product that he hoped would save Apple and again 
transform personal computing, Jobs symbolically chose 
the Flint Auditorium of De Anza Community College in 
Cupertino, the same venue he had used in 1984. He 
would be pulling out all the stops in order to dispel 
doubts, rally the troops, enlist support in the developers’ 
community, and jump-start the marketing of the new 
machine. But he was also doing it because he enjoyed 
playing impresario. Putting on a great show piqued his 
passions in the same way as putting out a great 
product.
Displaying his sentimental side, he began with a 
graceful shout-out to three people he had invited to be 
up front in the audience. He had become estranged 
from all of them, but now he wanted them rejoined. “I 
started the company with Steve Wozniak in my parents’ 
garage, and Steve is here today,” he said, pointing him 
out and prompting applause. “We were joined by Mike 
Markkula and soon after that our first president, Mike 
Scott,” he continued. “Both of those folks are in the 
audience today. And none of us would be here without 
these three guys.” His eyes misted for a moment as the 
applause again built. Also in the audience were Andy 
Hertzfeld and most of the original Mac team. Jobs gave 
them a smile. He believed he was about to do them 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 465
proud.
After showing the grid of Apple’s new product 
strategy and going through some slides about the new 
computer’s performance, he was ready to unveil his 
new baby. “This is what computers look like today,” he 
said as a picture of a beige set of boxy components and 
monitor was projected on the big screen behind him. 
“And I’d like to take the privilege of showing you what 
they are going to look like from today on.” He pulled the 
cloth from the table at center stage to reveal the new 
iMac, which gleamed and sparkled as the lights came 
up on cue. He pressed the mouse, and as at the launch 
of the original Macintosh, the screen flashed with fastpaced images of all the wondrous things the computer 
could do. At the end, the word “hello” appeared in the 
same playful script that had adorned the 1984 
Macintosh, this time with the word “again” below it in 
parentheses: Hello (again).There was thunderous 
applause. Jobs stood back and proudly gazed at his 
new Macintosh. “It looks like it’s from another planet,” 
he said, as the audience laughed. “A good planet. A 
planet with better designers.”
Once again Jobs had produced an iconic new 
product, this one a harbinger of a new millennium. It 
fulfilled the promise of “Think Different.” Instead of beige 
boxes and monitors with a welter of cables and a bulky 
setup manual, here was a friendly and spunky 
appliance, smooth to the touch and as pleasing to the 
eye as a robin’s egg. You could grab its cute little 
handle and lift it out of the elegant white box and plug it 
right into a wall socket. People who had been afraid of 
computers now wanted one, and they wanted to put it in 
a room where others could admire and perhaps covet it. 
“A piece of hardware that blends sci-fi shimmer with the 
kitsch whimsy of a cocktail umbrella,” Steven Levy 
wrote in Newsweek, “it is not only the coolest-looking 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 466
computer introduced in years, but a chest-thumping 
statement that Silicon Valley’s original dream company 
is no longer somnambulant.” Forbescalled it “an 
industry-altering success,” and John Sculley later came 
out of exile to gush, “He has implemented the same 
simple strategy that made Apple so successful 15 years 
ago: make hit products and promote them with terrific 
marketing.”
Carping was heard from only one familiar corner. 
As the iMac garnered kudos, Bill Gates assured a 
gathering of financial analysts visiting Microsoft that this 
would be a passing fad. “The one thing Apple’s 
providing now is leadership in colors,” Gates said as he 
pointed to a Windows-based PC that he jokingly had 
painted red. “It won’t take long for us to catch up with 
that, I don’t think.” Jobs was furious, and he told a 
reporter that Gates, the man he had publicly decried for 
being completely devoid of taste, was clueless about 
what made the iMac so much more appealing than 
other computers. “The thing that our competitors are 
missing is that they think it’s about fashion, and they 
think it’s about surface appearance,” he said. “They say, 
We’ll slap a little color on this piece of junk computer, 
and we’ll have one, too.”
The iMac went on sale in August 1998 for $1,299. 
It sold 278,000 units in its first six weeks, and would sell 
800,000 by the end of the year, making it the fastestselling computer in Apple history. Most notably, 32% of 
the sales went to people who were buying a computer 
for the first time, and another 12% to people who had 
been using Windows machines.
Ive soon came up with four new juicy-looking 
colors, in addition to bondi blue, for the iMacs. Offering 
the same computer in five colors would of course create 
huge challenges for manufacturing, inventory, and 
distribution. At most companies, including even the old 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 467
Apple, there would have been studies and meetings to 
look at the costs and benefits. But when Jobs looked at 
the new colors, he got totally psyched and summoned 
other executives over to the design studio. “We’re going 
to do all sorts of colors!” he told them excitedly. When 
they left, Ive looked at his team in amazement. “In most 
places that decision would have taken months,” Ive 
recalled. “Steve did it in a half hour.”


