TWENTY-FIRST-CENTURY MACS
Setting Apple Apart
With the iBook, 1999
Clams, Ice Cubes, and Sunflowers
Ever since the introduction of the iMac in 1998, 
Jobs and Jony Ive had made beguiling design a 
signature of Apple’s computers. There was a consumer 
laptop that looked like a tangerine clam, and a 
professional desktop computer that suggested a Zen 
ice cube. Like bell-bottoms that turn up in the back of a 
closet, some of these models looked better at the time 
than they do in retrospect, and they show a love of 
design that was, on occasion, a bit too exuberant. But 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 580
they set Apple apart and provided the publicity bursts it 
needed to survive in a Windows world.
The Power Mac G4 Cube, released in 2000, was 
so alluring that one ended up on display in New York’s 
Museum of Modern Art. An eight-inch perfect cube the 
size of a Kleenex box, it was the pure expression of 
Jobs’s aesthetic. The sophistication came from 
minimalism. No buttons marred the surface. There was 
no CD tray, just a subtle slot. And as with the original 
Macintosh, there was no fan. Pure Zen. “When you see 
something that’s so thoughtful on the outside you say, 
‘Oh, wow, it must be really thoughtful on the inside,’” he 
told Newsweek. “We make progress by eliminating 
things, by removing the superfluous.”
The G4 Cube was almost ostentatious in its lack of 
ostentation, and it was powerful. But it was not a 
success. It had been designed as a high-end desktop, 
but Jobs wanted to turn it, as he did almost every 
product, into something that could be mass-marketed to 
consumers. The Cube ended up not serving either 
market well. Workaday professionals weren’t seeking a 
jewel-like sculpture for their desks, and mass-market 
consumers were not eager to spend twice what they’d 
pay for a plain vanilla desktop. Jobs predicted that 
Apple would sell 200,000 Cubes per quarter. In its first 
quarter it sold half that. The next quarter it sold fewer 
than thirty thousand units. Jobs later admitted that he 
had overdesigned and overpriced the Cube, just as he 
had the NeXT computer. But gradually he was learning 
his lesson. In building devices like the iPod, he would 
control costs and make the trade-offs necessary to get 
them launched on time and on budget.
Partly because of the poor sales of the Cube, 
Apple produced disappointing revenue numbers in 
September 2000. That was just when the tech bubble 
was deflating and Apple’s education market was 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 581
declining. The company’s stock price, which had been 
above $60, fell 50% in one day, and by early December 
it was below $15.
None of this deterred Jobs from continuing to push 
for distinctive, even distracting, new design. When flatscreen displays became commercially viable, he 
decided it was time to replace the iMac, the translucent 
consumer desktop computer that looked as if it were 
from a Jetsonscartoon. Ive came up with a model that 
was somewhat conventional, with the guts of the 
computer attached to the back of the flat screen. Jobs 
didn’t like it. As he often did, both at Pixar and at Apple, 
he slammed on the brakes to rethink things. There was 
something about the design that lacked purity, he felt. 
“Why have this flat display if you’re going to glom all this 
stuff on its back?” he asked Ive. “We should let each 
element be true to itself.”
Jobs went home early that day to mull over the 
problem, then called Ive to come by. They wandered 
into the garden, which Jobs’s wife had planted with a 
profusion of sunflowers. “Every year I do something wild 
with the garden, and that time it involved masses of 
sunflowers, with a sunflower house for the kids,” she 
recalled. “Jony and Steve were riffing on their design 
problem, then Jony asked, ‘What if the screen was 
separated from the base like a sunflower?’ He got 
excited and started sketching.” Ive liked his designs to 
suggest a narrative, and he realized that a sunflower 
shape would convey that the flat screen was so fluid 
and responsive that it could reach for the sun.
In Ive’s new design, the Mac’s screen was 
attached to a movable chrome neck, so that it looked 
not only like a sunflower but also like a cheeky Luxo 
lamp. Indeed it evoked the playful personality of Luxo 
Jr. in the first short film that John Lasseter had made at 
Pixar. Apple took out many patents for the design, most 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 582
crediting Ive, but on one of them, for “a computer system 
having a movable assembly attached to a flat panel 
display,” Jobs listed himself as the primary inventor.
In hindsight, some of Apple’s Macintosh designs 
may seem a bit too cute. But other computer makers 
were at the other extreme. It was an industry that you’d 
expect to be innovative, but instead it was dominated by 
cheaply designed generic boxes. After a few illconceived stabs at painting on blue colors and trying 
new shapes, companies such as Dell, Compaq, and HP 
commoditized computers by outsourcing manufacturing 
and competing on price. With its spunky designs and its 
pathbreaking applications like iTunes and iMovie, 
Apple was about the only place innovating.
Intel Inside
Apple’s innovations were more than skin-deep. 
Since 1994 it had been using a microprocessor, called 
the PowerPC, that was made by a partnership of IBM 
and Motorola. For a few years it was faster than Intel’s 
chips, an advantage that Apple touted in humorous 
commercials. By the time of Jobs’s return, however, 
Motorola had fallen behind in producing new versions 
of the chip. This provoked a fight between Jobs and 
Motorola’s CEO Chris Galvin. When Jobs decided to 
stop licensing the Macintosh operating system to clone 
makers, right after his return to Apple in 1997, he 
suggested to Galvin that he might consider making an 
exception for Motorola’s clone, the StarMax Mac, but 
only if Motorola sped up development of new PowerPC 
chips for laptops. The call got heated. Jobs offered his 
opinion that Motorola chips sucked. Galvin, who also 
had a temper, pushed back. Jobs hung up on him. The 
Motorola StarMax was canceled, and Jobs secretly 
began planning to move Apple off the Motorola-IBM 
PowerPC chip and to adopt, instead, Intel’s. This would 
not be a simple task. It was akin to writing a new 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 583
operating system.
Jobs did not cede any real power to his board, but 
he did use its meetings to kick around ideas and think 
through strategies in confidence, while he stood at a 
whiteboard and led freewheeling discussions. For 
eighteen months the directors discussed whether to 
move to an Intel architecture. “We debated it, we asked 
a lot of questions, and finally we all decided it needed 
to be done,” board member Art Levinson recalled.
Paul Otellini, who was then president and later 
became CEO of Intel, began huddling with Jobs. They 
had gotten to know each other when Jobs was 
struggling to keep NeXT alive and, as Otellini later put 
it, “his arrogance had been temporarily tempered.” 
Otellini has a calm and wry take on people, and he was 
amused rather than put off when he discovered, upon 
dealing with Jobs at Apple in the early 2000s, “that his 
juices were going again, and he wasn’t nearly as 
humble anymore.” Intel had deals with other computer 
makers, and Jobs wanted a better price than they had. 
“We had to find creative ways to bridge the numbers,” 
said Otellini. Most of the negotiating was done, as Jobs 
preferred, on long walks, sometimes on the trails up to 
the radio telescope known as the Dish above the 
Stanford campus. Jobs would start the walk by telling a 
story and explaining how he saw the history of 
computers evolving. By the end he would be haggling 
over price.
“Intel had a reputation for being a tough partner, 
coming out of the days when it was run by Andy Grove 
and Craig Barrett,” Otellini said. “I wanted to show that 
Intel was a company you could work with.” So a crack 
team from Intel worked with Apple, and they were able 
to beat the conversion deadline by six months. Jobs 
invited Otellini to Apple’s Top 100 management retreat, 
where he donned one of the famous Intel lab coats that 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 584
looked like a bunny suit and gave Jobs a big hug. At the 
public announcement in 2005, the usually reserved 
Otellini repeated the act. “Apple and Intel, together at 
last,” flashed on the big screen.
Bill Gates was amazed. Designing crazy-colored 
cases did not impress him, but a secret program to 
switch the CPU in a computer, completed seamlessly 
and on time, was a feat he truly admired. “If you’d said, 
‘Okay, we’re going to change our microprocessor chip, 
and we’re not going to lose a beat,’ that sounds 
impossible,” he told me years later, when I asked him 
about Jobs’s accomplishments. “They basically did 
that.”
Options
Among Jobs’s quirks was his attitude toward 
money. When he returned to Apple in 1997, he 
portrayed himself as a person working for $1 a year, 
doing it for the benefit of the company rather than 
himself. Nevertheless he embraced the idea of option 
megagrants—granting huge bundles of options to buy 
Apple stock at a preset price—that were not subject to 
the usual good compensation practices of board 
committee reviews and performance criteria.
When he dropped the “interim” in his title and 
officially became CEO, he was offered (in addition to 
the airplane) a megagrant by Ed Woolard and the 
board at the beginning of 2000; defying the image he 
cultivated of not being interested in money, he had 
stunned Woolard by asking for even more options than 
the board had proposed. But soon after he got them, it 
turned out that it was for naught. Apple stock cratered in 
September 2000—due to disappointing sales of the 
Cube plus the bursting of the Internet bubble—which 
made the options worthless.
Making matters worse was a June 2001 cover 
story in Fortuneabout overcompensated CEOs, “The 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 585
Great CEO Pay Heist.” A mug of Jobs, smiling smugly, 
filled the cover. Even though his options were 
underwater at the time, the technical method of valuing 
them when granted (known as a Black-Scholes 
valuation) set their worth at $872 million. Fortune
proclaimed it “by far” the largest compensation package 
ever granted a CEO. It was the worst of all worlds: Jobs 
had almost no money that he could put in his pocket for 
his four years of hard and successful turnaround work 
at Apple, yet he had become the poster child of greedy 
CEOs, making him look hypocritical and undermining 
his self-image. He wrote a scathing letter to the editor, 
declaring that his options actually “are worth zero” and 
offering to sell them to Fortunefor half of the supposed 
$872 million the magazine had reported.
In the meantime Jobs wanted the board to give 
him another big grant of options, since his old ones 
seemed worthless. He insisted, both to the board and 
probably to himself, that it was more about getting 
proper recognition than getting rich. “It wasn’t so much 
about the money,” he later said in a deposition in an 
SEC lawsuit over the options. “Everybody likes to be 
recognized by his peers. . . . I felt that the board wasn’t 
really doing the same with me.” He felt that the board 
should have come to him offering a new grant, without 
his having to suggest it. “I thought I was doing a pretty 
good job. It would have made me feel better at the 
time.”
His handpicked board in fact doted on him. So 
they decided to give him another huge grant in August 
2001, when the stock price was just under $18. The 
problem was that he worried about his image, 
especially after the Fortunearticle. He did not want to 
accept the new grant unless the board canceled his old 
options at the same time. But to do so would have 
adverse accounting implications, because it would be 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 586
effectively repricing the old options. That would require 
taking a charge against current earnings. The only way 
to avoid this “variable accounting” problem was to 
cancel his old options at least six months after his new 
options were granted. In addition, Jobs started haggling 
with the board over how quickly the new options would 
vest.
It was not until mid-December 2001 that Jobs 
finally agreed to take the new options and, braving the 
optics, wait six months before his old ones were 
canceled. But by then the stock price (adjusting for a 
split) had gone up $3, to about $21. If the strike price of 
the new options was set at that new level, each would 
have thus been $3 less valuable. So Apple’s legal 
counsel, Nancy Heinen, looked over the recent stock 
prices and helped to choose an October date, when the 
stock was $18.30. She also approved a set of minutes 
that purported to show that the board had approved the 
grant on that date. The backdating was potentially worth 
$20 million to Jobs.
Once again Jobs would end up suffering bad 
publicity without making a penny. Apple’s stock price 
kept dropping, and by March 2003 even the new 
options were so low that Jobs traded in all of them for 
an outright grant of $75 million worth of shares, which 
amounted to about $8.3 million for each year he had 
worked since coming back in 1997 through the end of 
the vesting in 2006.
None of this would have mattered much if the Wall 
Street Journalhad not run a powerful series in 2006 
about backdated stock options. Apple wasn’t 
mentioned, but its board appointed a committee of three 
members—Al Gore, Eric Schmidt of Google, and Jerry 
York, formerly of IBM and Chrysler—to investigate its 
own practices. “We decided at the outset that if Steve 
was at fault we would let the chips fall where they may,” 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 587
Gore recalled. The committee uncovered some 
irregularities with Jobs’s grants and those of other top 
officers, and it immediately turned the findings over to 
the SEC. Jobs was aware of the backdating, the report 
said, but he ended up not benefiting financially. (A 
board committee at Disney also found that similar 
backdating had occurred at Pixar when Jobs was in 
charge.)
The laws governing such backdating practices 
were murky, especially since no one at Apple ended up 
benefiting from the dubiously dated grants. The SEC 
took eight months to do its own investigation, and in 
April 2007 it announced that it would not bring action 
against Apple “based in part on its swift, extensive, and 
extraordinary cooperation in the Commission’s 
investigation [and its] prompt self-reporting.” Although 
the SEC found that Jobs had been aware of the 
backdating, it cleared him of any misconduct because 
he “was unaware of the accounting implications.”
The SEC did file complaints against Apple’s 
former chief financial officer Fred Anderson, who was 
on the board, and general counsel Nancy Heinen. 
Anderson, a retired Air Force captain with a square jaw 
and deep integrity, had been a wise and calming 
influence at Apple, where he was known for his ability 
to control Jobs’s tantrums. He was cited by the SEC 
only for “negligence” regarding the paperwork for one 
set of the grants (not the ones that went to Jobs), and 
the SEC allowed him to continue to serve on corporate 
boards. Nevertheless he ended up resigning from the 
Apple board.
Anderson thought he had been made a 
scapegoat. When he settled with the SEC, his lawyer 
issued a statement that cast some of the blame on Jobs. 
It said that Anderson had “cautioned Mr. Jobs that the 
executive team grant would have to be priced on the 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 588
date of the actual board agreement or there could be an 
accounting charge,” and that Jobs replied “that the 
board had given its prior approval.”
Heinen, who initially fought the charges against 
her, ended up settling and paying a $2.2 million fine, 
without admitting or denying any wrongdoing. Likewise 
the company itself settled a shareholders’ lawsuit by 
agreeing to pay $14 million in damages.
“Rarely have so many avoidable problems been 
created by one man’s obsession with his own image,” 
Joe Nocera wrote in the New York Times. “Then again, 
this is Steve Jobs we’re talking about.” Contemptuous 
of rules and regulations, he created a climate that made 
it hard for someone like Heinen to buck his wishes. At 
times, great creativity occurred. But people around him 
could pay a price. On compensation issues in 
particular, the difficulty of defying his whims drove some 
good people to make some bad mistakes.
The compensation issue in some ways echoed 
Jobs’s parking quirk. He refused such trappings as 
having a “Reserved for CEO” spot, but he assumed for 
himself the right to park in the handicapped spaces. He 
wanted to be seen (both by himself and by others) as 
someone willing to work for $1 a year, but he also 
wanted to have huge stock grants bestowed upon him. 
Jangling inside him were the contradictions of a 
counterculture rebel turned business entrepreneur, 
someone who wanted to believe that he had turned on 
and tuned in without having sold out and cashed in.
THE iPAD
  Into the Post-PC Era
 
   You Say You Want a Revolution
Back in 2002, Jobs had been annoyed by the 
Microsoft engineer who kept proselytizing about the 
tablet computer software he had developed, which 
allowed users to input information on the screen with a 
stylus or pen. A few manufacturers released tablet PCs 
that year using the software, but none made a dent in 
the universe. Jobs had been eager to show how it 
should be done right—no stylus!—but when he saw the 
multi-touch technology that Apple was developing, he 
had decided to use it first to make an iPhone.
In the meantime, the tablet idea was percolating 
within the Macintosh hardware group. “We have no 
plans to make a tablet,” Jobs declared in an interview 
with Walt Mossberg in May 2003. “It turns out people 
want keyboards. Tablets appeal to rich guys with plenty 
of other PCs and devices already.” Like his statement 
about having a “hormone imbalance,” that was 
misleading; at most of his annual Top 100 retreats, the 
tablet was among the future projects discussed. “We 
showed the idea off at many of these retreats, because 
Steve never lost his desire to do a tablet,” Phil Schiller 
recalled.
The tablet project got a boost in 2007 when Jobs 
was considering ideas for a low-cost netbook computer. 
At an executive team brainstorming session one 
Monday, Ive asked why it needed a keyboard hinged to 
the screen; that was expensive and bulky. Put the 
keyboard on the screen using a multi-touch interface, 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 639
he suggested. Jobs agreed. So the resources were 
directed to revving up the tablet project rather than 
designing a netbook.
The process began with Jobs and Ive figuring out 
the right screen size. They had twenty models made—
all rounded rectangles, of course—in slightly varying 
sizes and aspect ratios. Ive laid them out on a table in 
the design studio, and in the afternoon they would lift 
the velvet cloth hiding them and play with them. “That’s 
how we nailed what the screen size was,” Ive said.
As usual Jobs pushed for the purest possible 
simplicity. That required determining what was the core 
essence of the device. The answer: the display screen. 
So the guiding principle was that everything they did 
had to defer to the screen. “How do we get out of the 
way so there aren’t a ton of features and buttons that 
distract from the display?” Ive asked. At every step, Jobs 
pushed to remove and simplify.
At one point Jobs looked at the model and was 
slightly dissatisfied. It didn’t feel casual and friendly 
enough, so that you would naturally scoop it up and 
whisk it away. Ive put his finger, so to speak, on the 
problem: They needed to signal that you could grab it 
with one hand, on impulse. The bottom of the edge 
needed to be slightly rounded, so that you’d feel 
comfortable just scooping it up rather than lifting it 
carefully. That meant engineering had to design the 
necessary connection ports and buttons in a simple lip 
that was thin enough to wash away gently underneath.
If you had been paying attention to patent filings, 
you would have noticed the one numbered D504889 
that Apple applied for in March 2004 and was issued 
fourteen months later. Among the inventors listed were 
Jobs and Ive. The application carried sketches of a 
rectangular electronic tablet with rounded edges, which 
looked just the way the iPad turned out, including one 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 640
of a man holding it casually in his left hand while using 
his right index finger to touch the screen.
  Since the Macintosh computers were now using 
Intel chips, Jobs initially planned to use in the iPad the 
low-voltage Atom chip that Intel was developing. Paul 
Otellini, Intel’s CEO, was pushing hard to work together 
on a design, and Jobs’s inclination was to trust him. His 
company was making the fastest processors in the 
world. But Intel was used to making processors for 
machines that plugged into a wall, not ones that had to 
preserve battery life. So Tony Fadell argued strongly for 
something based on the ARM architecture, which was 
simpler and used less power. Apple had been an early 
partner with ARM, and chips using its architecture were 
in the original iPhone. Fadell gathered support from 
other engineers and proved that it was possible to 
confront Jobs and turn him around. “Wrong, wrong, 
wrong!” Fadell shouted at one meeting when Jobs 
insisted it was best to trust Intel to make a good mobile 
chip. Fadell even put his Apple badge on the table, 
threatening to resign.
Eventually Jobs relented. “I hear you,” he said. “I’m 
not going to go against my best guys.” In fact he went to 
the other extreme. Apple licensed the ARM architecture, 
but it also bought a 150-person microprocessor design 
firm in Palo Alto, called P.A. Semi, and had it create a 
custom system-on-a-chip, called the A4, which was 
based on the ARM architecture and manufactured in 
South Korea by Samsung. As Jobs recalled:
At the high-performance end, Intel is the best. 
They build the fastest chip, if you don’t care about 
power and cost. But they build just the processor on 
one chip, so it takes a lot of other parts. Our A4 has the 
processor and the graphics, mobile operating system, 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 641
and memory control all in the chip. We tried to help 
Intel, but they don’t listen much. We’ve been telling 
them for years that their graphics suck. Every quarter 
we schedule a meeting with me and our top three guys 
and Paul Otellini. At the beginning, we were doing 
wonderful things together. They wanted this big joint 
project to do chips for future iPhones. There were two 
reasons we didn’t go with them. One was that they are 
just really slow. They’re like a steamship, not very 
flexible. We’re used to going pretty fast. Second is that 
we just didn’t want to teach them everything, which they 
could go and sell to our competitors.
  According to Otellini, it would have made sense for 
the iPad to use Intel chips. The problem, he said, was 
that Apple and Intel couldn’t agree on price. Also, they 
disagreed on who would control the design. It was 
another example of Jobs’s desire, indeed compulsion, 
to control every aspect of a product, from the silicon to 
the flesh.
The Launch, January 2010
The usual excitement that Jobs was able to gin up 
for a product launch paled in comparison to the frenzy 
that built for the iPad unveiling on January 27, 2010, in 
San Francisco. The Economistput him on its cover 
robed, haloed, and holding what was dubbed “the 
Jesus Tablet.” The Wall Street Journalstruck a similarly 
exalted note: “The last time there was this much 
excitement about a tablet, it had some commandments 
written on it.”
As if to underscore the historic nature of the 
launch, Jobs invited back many of the old-timers from 
his early Apple days. More poignantly, James Eason, 
who had performed his liver transplant the year before, 
and Jeffrey Norton, who had operated on his pancreas 
in 2004, were in the audience, sitting with his wife, his 
son, and Mona Simpson.
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 642
Jobs did his usual masterly job of putting a new 
device into context, as he had done for the iPhone three 
years earlier. This time he put up a screen that showed 
an iPhone and a laptop with a question mark in 
between. “The question is, is there room for something 
in the middle?” he asked. That “something” would have 
to be good at web browsing, email, photos, video, 
music, games, and ebooks. He drove a stake through 
the heart of the netbook concept. “Netbooks aren’t 
better at anything!” he said. The invited guests and 
employees cheered. “But we have something that is. 
We call it the iPad.”
To underscore the casual nature of the iPad, Jobs 
ambled over to a comfortable leather chair and side 
table (actually, given his taste, it was a Le Corbusier 
chair and an Eero Saarinen table) and scooped one up. 
“It’s so much more intimate than a laptop,” he enthused. 
He proceeded to surf to the New York Timeswebsite, 
send an email to Scott Forstall and Phil Schiller (“Wow, 
we really are announcing the iPad”), flip through a 
photo album, use a calendar, zoom in on the Eiffel 
Tower on Google Maps, watch some video clips (Star 
Trekand Pixar’s Up), show off the iBook shelf, and play 
a song (Bob Dylan’s “Like a Rolling Stone,” which he 
had played at the iPhone launch). “Isn’t that awesome?” 
he asked.
With his final slide, Jobs emphasized one of the 
themes of his life, which was embodied by the iPad: a 
sign showing the corner of Technology Street and 
Liberal Arts Street. “The reason Apple can create 
products like the iPad is that we’ve always tried to be at 
the intersection of technology and liberal arts,” he 
concluded. The iPad was the digital reincarnation of the 
Whole Earth Catalog, the place where creativity met 
tools for living.
For once, the initial reaction was not a Hallelujah 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 643
Chorus. The iPad was not yet available (it would go on 
sale in April), and some who watched Jobs’s demo 
were not quite sure what it was. An iPhone on steroids? 
“I haven’t been this let down since Snooki hooked up 
with The Situation,” wrote Newsweek’s Daniel Lyons 
(who moonlighted as “The Fake Steve Jobs” in an 
online parody). Gizmodo ran a contributor’s piece 
headlined “Eight Things That Suck about the iPad” (no 
multitasking, no cameras, no Flash . . . ). Even the name 
came in for ridicule in the blogosphere, with snarky 
comments about feminine hygiene products and maxi 
pads. The hashtag “#iTampon” was the number-three 
trending topic on Twitter that day.
There was also the requisite dismissal from Bill 
Gates. “I still think that some mixture of voice, the pen 
and a real keyboard—in other words a netbook—will be 
the mainstream,” he told Brent Schlender. “So, it’s not 
like I sit there and feel the same way I did with the 
iPhone where I say, ‘Oh my God, Microsoft didn’t aim 
high enough.’ It’s a nice reader, but there’s nothing on 
the iPad I look at and say, ‘Oh, I wish Microsoft had 
done it.’” He continued to insist that the Microsoft 
approach of using a stylus for input would prevail. “I’ve 
been predicting a tablet with a stylus for many years,” 
he told me. “I will eventually turn out to be right or be 
dead.”
The night after his announcement, Jobs was 
annoyed and depressed. As we gathered in his kitchen 
for dinner, he paced around the table calling up emails 
and web pages on his iPhone.
I got about eight hundred email messages in the 
last twenty-four hours. Most of them are complaining. 
There’s no USB cord! There’s no this, no that. Some of 
them are like, “Fuck you, how can you do that?” I don’t 
usually write people back, but I replied, “Your parents 
would be so proud of how you turned out.” And some 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 644
don’t like the iPad name, and on and on. I kind of got 
depressed today. It knocks you back a bit.
  He did get one congratulatory call that day that he 
appreciated, from President Obama’s chief of staff, 
Rahm Emanuel. But he noted at dinner that the 
president had not called him since taking office.
The public carping subsided when the iPad went 
on sale in April and people got their hands on it. Both 
Timeand Newsweekput it on the cover. “The tough 
thing about writing about Apple products is that they 
come with a lot of hype wrapped around them,” Lev 
Grossman wrote in Time.“The other tough thing about 
writing about Apple products is that sometimes the hype 
is true.” His main reservation, a substantive one, was 
“that while it’s a lovely device for consuming content, it 
doesn’t do much to facilitate its creation.” Computers, 
especially the Macintosh, had become tools that 
allowed people to make music, videos, websites, and 
blogs, which could be posted for the world to see. “The 
iPad shifts the emphasis from creating content to merely 
absorbing and manipulating it. It mutes you, turns you 
back into a passive consumer of other people’s 
masterpieces.” It was a criticism Jobs took to heart. He 
set about making sure that the next version of the iPad 
would emphasize ways to facilitate artistic creation by 
the user.
Newsweek’s cover line was “What’s So Great 
about the iPad? Everything.” Daniel Lyons, who had 
zapped it with his “Snooki” comment at the launch, 
revised his opinion. “My first thought, as I watched Jobs 
run through his demo, was that it seemed like no big 
deal,” he wrote. “It’s a bigger version of the iPod Touch, 
right? Then I got a chance to use an iPad, and it hit me: 
I want one.” Lyons, like others, realized that this was 
Jobs’s pet project, and it embodied all that he stood for. 
“He has an uncanny ability to cook up gadgets that we 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 645
didn’t know we needed, but then suddenly can’t live 
without,” he wrote. “A closed system may be the only 
way to deliver the kind of techno-Zen experience that 
Apple has become known for.”
Most of the debate over the iPad centered on the 
issue of whether its closed end-to-end integration was 
brilliant or doomed. Google was starting to play a role 
similar to the one Microsoft had played in the 1980s, 
offering a mobile platform, Android, that was open and 
could be used by all hardware makers. Fortunestaged 
a debate on this issue in its pages. “There’s no excuse 
to be closed,” wrote Michael Copeland. But his 
colleague Jon Fortt rebutted, “Closed systems get a bad 
rap, but they work beautifully and users benefit. 
Probably no one in tech has proved this more 
convincingly than Steve Jobs. By bundling hardware, 
software, and services, and controlling them tightly, 
Apple is consistently able to get the jump on its rivals 
and roll out polished products.” They agreed that the 
iPad would be the clearest test of this question since 
the original Macintosh. “Apple has taken its controlfreak rep to a whole new level with the A4 chip that 
powers the thing,” wrote Fortt. “Cupertino now has 
absolute say over the silicon, device, operating system, 
App Store, and payment system.”
Jobs went to the Apple store in Palo Alto shortly 
before noon on April 5, the day the iPad went on sale. 
Daniel Kottke—his acid-dropping soul mate from Reed 
and the early days at Apple, who no longer harbored a 
grudge for not getting founders’ stock options—made a 
point of being there. “It had been fifteen years, and I 
wanted to see him again,” Kottke recounted. “I grabbed 
him and told him I was going to use the iPad for my 
song lyrics. He was in a great mood and we had a nice 
chat after all these years.” Powell and their youngest 
child, Eve, watched from a corner of the store.
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 646
Wozniak, who had once been a proponent of 
making hardware and software as open as possible, 
continued to revise that opinion. As he often did, he 
stayed up all night with the enthusiasts waiting in line 
for the store to open. This time he was at San Jose’s 
Valley Fair Mall, riding a Segway. A reporter asked him 
about the closed nature of Apple’s ecosystem. “Apple 
gets you into their playpen and keeps you there, but 
there are some advantages to that,” he replied. “I like 
open systems, but I’m a hacker. But most people want 
things that are easy to use. Steve’s genius is that he 
knows how to make things simple, and that sometimes 
requires controlling everything.”
The question “What’s on your iPad?” replaced 
“What’s on your iPod?” Even President Obama’s 
staffers, who embraced the iPad as a mark of their tech 
hipness, played the game. Economic Advisor Larry 
Summers had the Bloomberg financial information app, 
Scrabble, and The Federalist Papers.Chief of Staff 
Rahm Emanuel had a slew of newspapers, 
Communications Advisor Bill Burton had Vanity Fair
and one entire season of the television series Lost,and 
Political Director David Axelrod had Major League 
Baseball and NPR.
Jobs was stirred by a story, which he forwarded to 
me, by Michael Noer on Forbes.com.Noer was reading 
a science fiction novel on his iPad while staying at a 
dairy farm in a rural area north of Bogotá, Colombia, 
when a poor six-year-old boy who cleaned the stables 
came up to him. Curious, Noer handed him the device. 
With no instruction, and never having seen a computer 
before, the boy started using it intuitively. He began 
swiping the screen, launching apps, playing a pinball 
game. “Steve Jobs has designed a powerful computer 
that an illiterate six-year-old can use without 
instruction,” Noer wrote. “If that isn’t magical, I don’t 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 647
know what is.”
In less than a month Apple sold one million iPads. 
That was twice as fast as it took the iPhone to reach that 
mark. By March 2011, nine months after its release, 
fifteen million had been sold. By some measures it 
became the most successful consumer product launch 
in history.
