Family Ties
Jobs had an aching desire to make it to his son’s 
graduation from high school in June 2010. “When I was 
diagnosed with cancer, I made my deal with God or 
whatever, which was that I really wanted to see Reed 
graduate, and that got me through 2009,” he said. As a 
senior, Reed looked eerily like his father at eighteen, 
with a knowing and slightly rebellious smile, intense 
eyes, and a shock of dark hair. But from his mother he 
had inherited a sweetness and painfully sensitive 
empathy that his father lacked. He was demonstrably 
affectionate and eager to please. Whenever his father 
was sitting sullenly at the kitchen table and staring at 
the floor, which happened often when he was ailing, the 
only thing sure to cause his eyes to brighten was Reed 
walking in.
Reed adored his father. Soon after I started 
working on this book, he dropped in to where I was 
staying and, as his father often did, suggested we take 
a walk. He told me, with an intensely earnest look, that 
his father was not a cold profit-seeking businessman 
but was motivated by a love of what he did and a pride 
in the products he was making.
After Jobs was diagnosed with cancer, Reed 
began spending his summers working in a Stanford 
oncology lab doing DNA sequencing to find genetic 
markers for colon cancer. In one experiment, he traced 
how mutations go through families. “One of the very few 
silver linings about me getting sick is that Reed’s gotten 
to spend a lot of time studying with some very good 
doctors,” Jobs said. “His enthusiasm for it is exactly how 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 699
I felt about computers when I was his age. I think the 
biggest innovations of the twenty-first century will be the 
intersection of biology and technology. A new era is 
beginning, just like the digital one was when I was his 
age.”
Reed used his cancer study as the basis for the 
senior report he presented to his class at Crystal 
Springs Uplands School. As he described how he used 
centrifuges and dyes to sequence the DNA of tumors, 
his father sat in the audience beaming, along with the 
rest of his family. “I fantasize about Reed getting a 
house here in Palo Alto with his family and riding his 
bike to work as a doctor at Stanford,” Jobs said 
afterward.
Reed had grown up fast in 2009, when it looked 
as if his father was going to die. He took care of his 
younger sisters while his parents were in Memphis, and 
he developed a protective paternalism. But when his 
father’s health stabilized in the spring of 2010, he 
regained his playful, teasing personality. One day 
during dinner he was discussing with his family where 
to take his girlfriend for dinner. His father suggested Il 
Fornaio, an elegant standard in Palo Alto, but Reed 
said he had been unable to get reservations. “Do you 
want me to try?” his father asked. Reed resisted; he 
wanted to handle it himself. Erin, the somewhat shy 
middle child, suggested that she could outfit a tepee in 
their garden and she and Eve, the younger sister, 
would serve them a romantic meal there. Reed stood 
up and hugged her. He would take her up on that some 
other time, he promised.
One Saturday Reed was one of the four 
contestants on his school’s Quiz Kids team competing 
on a local TV station. The family—minus Eve, who was 
in a horse show—came to cheer him on. As the 
television crew bumbled around getting ready, his 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 700
father tried to keep his impatience in check and remain 
inconspicuous among the parents sitting in the rows of 
folding chairs. But he was clearly recognizable in his 
trademark jeans and black turtleneck, and one woman 
pulled up a chair right next to him and started to take his 
picture. Without looking at her, he stood up and moved 
to the other end of the row. When Reed came on the 
set, his nameplate identified him as “Reed Powell.” The 
host asked the students what they wanted to be when 
they grew up. “A cancer researcher,” Reed answered.
Jobs drove his two-seat Mercedes SL55, taking 
Reed, while his wife followed in her own car with Erin. 
On the way home, she asked Erin why she thought her 
father refused to have a license plate on his car. “To be 
a rebel,” she answered. I later put the question to Jobs. 
“Because people follow me sometimes, and if I have a 
license plate, they can track down where I live,” he 
replied. “But that’s kind of getting obsolete now with 
Google Maps. So I guess, really, it’s just because I 
don’t.”

LEGACY
The Brightest Heaven of Invention
FireWire
His personality was reflected in the products he 
created. Just as the core of Apple’s philosophy, from the 
original Macintosh in 1984 to the iPad a generation 
later, was the end-to-end integration of hardware and 
software, so too was it the case with Steve Jobs: His 
passions, perfectionism, demons, desires, artistry, 
devilry, and obsession for control were integrally 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 727
connected to his approach to business and the 
products that resulted.
The unified field theory that ties together Jobs’s 
personality and products begins with his most salient 
trait: his intensity. His silences could be as searing as 
his rants; he had taught himself to stare without 
blinking. Sometimes this intensity was charming, in a 
geeky way, such as when he was explaining the 
profundity of Bob Dylan’s music or why whatever 
product he was unveiling at that moment was the most 
amazing thing that Apple had ever made. At other times 
it could be terrifying, such as when he was fulminating 
about Google or Microsoft ripping off Apple.
This intensity encouraged a binary view of the 
world. Colleagues referred to the hero/shithead 
dichotomy. You were either one or the other, sometimes 
on the same day. The same was true of products, ideas, 
even food: Something was either “the best thing ever,” 
or it was shitty, brain-dead, inedible. As a result, any 
perceived flaw could set off a rant. The finish on a piece 
of metal, the curve of the head of a screw, the shade of 
blue on a box, the intuitiveness of a navigation screen
—he would declare them to “completely suck” until that 
moment when he suddenly pronounced them 
“absolutely perfect.” He thought of himself as an artist, 
which he was, and he indulged in the temperament of 
one.
His quest for perfection led to his compulsion for 
Apple to have end-to-end control of every product that it 
made. He got hives, or worse, when contemplating 
great Apple software running on another company’s 
crappy hardware, and he likewise was allergic to the 
thought of unapproved apps or content polluting the 
perfection of an Apple device. This ability to integrate 
hardware and software and content into one unified 
system enabled him to impose simplicity. The 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 728
astronomer Johannes Kepler declared that “nature 
loves simplicity and unity.” So did Steve Jobs.
This instinct for integrated systems put him 
squarely on one side of the most fundamental divide in 
the digital world: open versus closed. The hacker ethos 
handed down from the Homebrew Computer Club 
favored the open approach, in which there was little 
centralized control and people were free to modify 
hardware and software, share code, write to open 
standards, shun proprietary systems, and have content 
and apps that were compatible with a variety of devices 
and operating systems. The young Wozniak was in that 
camp: The Apple II he designed was easily opened and 
sported plenty of slots and ports that people could jack 
into as they pleased. With the Macintosh Jobs became 
a founding father of the other camp. The Macintosh 
would be like an appliance, with the hardware and 
software tightly woven together and closed to 
modifications. The hacker ethos would be sacrificed in 
order to create a seamless and simple user experience.
This led Jobs to decree that the Macintosh 
operating system would not be available for any other 
company’s hardware. Microsoft pursued the opposite 
strategy, allowing its Windows operating system to be 
promiscuously licensed. That did not produce the most 
elegant computers, but it did lead to Microsoft’s 
dominating the world of operating systems. After 
Apple’s market share shrank to less than 5%, 
Microsoft’s approach was declared the winner in the 
personal computer realm.
In the longer run, however, there proved to be 
some advantages to Jobs’s model. Even with a small 
market share, Apple was able to maintain a huge profit 
margin while other computer makers were 
commoditized. In 2010, for example, Apple had just 7% 
of the revenue in the personal computer market, but it 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 729
grabbed 35% of the operating profit.
More significantly, in the early 2000s Jobs’s 
insistence on end-to-end integration gave Apple an 
advantage in developing a digital hub strategy, which 
allowed your desktop computer to link seamlessly with 
a variety of portable devices. The iPod, for example, 
was part of a closed and tightly integrated system. To 
use it, you had to use Apple’s iTunes software and 
download content from its iTunes Store. The result was 
that the iPod, like the iPhone and iPad that followed, 
was an elegant delight in contrast to the kludgy rival 
products that did not offer a seamless end-to-end 
experience.
The strategy worked. In May 2000 Apple’s market 
value was one-twentieth that of Microsoft. In May 2010 
Apple surpassed Microsoft as the world’s most valuable 
technology company, and by September 2011 it was 
worth 70% more than Microsoft. In the first quarter of 
2011 the market for Windows PCs shrank by 1%, while 
the market for Macs grew 28%.
By then the battle had begun anew in the world of 
mobile devices. Google took the more open approach, 
and it made its Android operating system available for 
use by any maker of tablets or cell phones. By 2011 its 
share of the mobile market matched Apple’s. The 
drawback of Android’s openness was the fragmentation 
that resulted. Various handset and tablet makers 
modified Android into dozens of variants and flavors, 
making it hard for apps to remain consistent or make full 
use if its features. There were merits to both 
approaches. Some people wanted the freedom to use 
more open systems and have more choices of 
hardware; others clearly preferred Apple’s tight 
integration and control, which led to products that had 
simpler interfaces, longer battery life, greater userfriendliness, and easier handling of content.
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 730
The downside of Jobs’s approach was that his 
desire to delight the user led him to resist empowering 
the user. Among the most thoughtful proponents of an 
open environment is Jonathan Zittrainof Harvard. He 
begins his book The Future of the Internet—And How to 
Stop Itwith the scene of Jobs introducing the iPhone, 
and he warns of the consequences of replacing 
personal computers with “sterile appliances tethered to 
a network of control.” Even more fervent is Cory 
Doctorow, who wrote a manifesto called “Why I Won’t 
Buy an iPad” for Boing Boing. “There’s a lot of 
thoughtfulness and smarts that went into the design. But 
there’s also a palpable contempt for the owner,” he 
wrote. “Buying an iPad for your kids isn’t a means of 
jump-starting the realization that the world is yours to 
take apart and reassemble; it’s a way of telling your 
offspring that even changing the batteries is something 
you have to leave to the professionals.”
For Jobs, belief in an integrated approach was a 
matter of righteousness. “We do these things not 
because we are control freaks,” he explained. “We do 
them because we want to make great products, 
because we care about the user, and because we like 
to take responsibility for the entire experience rather 
than turn out the crap that other people make.” He also 
believed he was doing people a service: “They’re busy 
doing whatever they do best, and they want us to do 
what we do best. Their lives are crowded; they have 
other things to do than think about how to integrate their 
computers and devices.”
This approach sometimes went against Apple’s 
short-term business interests. But in a world filled with 
junky devices, inscrutable error messages, and 
annoying interfaces, it led to astonishing products 
marked by beguiling user experiences. Using an Apple 
product could be as sublime as walking in one of the 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 731
Zen gardens of Kyoto that Jobs loved, and neither 
experience was created by worshipping at the altar of 
openness or by letting a thousand flowers bloom. 
Sometimes it’s nice to be in the hands of a control freak.
Jobs’s intensity was also evident in his ability to 
focus. He would set priorities, aim his laser attention on 
them, and filter out distractions. If something engaged 
him—the user interface for the original Macintosh, the 
design of the iPod and iPhone, getting music 
companies into the iTunes Store—he was relentless. 
But if he did not want to deal with something—a legal 
annoyance, a business issue, his cancer diagnosis, a 
family tug—he would resolutely ignore it. That focus 
allowed him to say no. He got Apple back on track by 
cutting all except a few core products. He made devices 
simpler by eliminating buttons, software simpler by 
eliminating features, and interfaces simpler by 
eliminating options.
He attributed his ability to focus and his love of 
simplicity to his Zen training. It honed his appreciation 
for intuition, showed him how to filter out anything that 
was distracting or unnecessary, and nurtured in him an 
aesthetic based on minimalism.
Unfortunately his Zen training never quite 
produced in him a Zen-like calm or inner serenity, and 
that too is part of his legacy. He was often tightly coiled 
and impatient, traits he made no effort to hide. Most 
people have a regulator between their mind and mouth 
that modulates their brutish sentiments and spikiest 
impulses. Not Jobs. He made a point of being brutally 
honest. “My job is to say when something sucks rather 
than sugarcoat it,” he said. This made him charismatic 
and inspiring, yet also, to use the technical term, an 
asshole at times.
Andy Hertzfeld once told me, “The one question I’d 
truly love Steve to answer is, ‘Why are you sometimes 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 732
so mean?’” Even his family members wondered 
whether he simply lacked the filter that restrains people 
from venting their wounding thoughts or willfully 
bypassed it. Jobs claimed it was the former. “This is 
who I am, and you can’t expect me to be someone I’m 
not,” he replied when I asked him the question. But I 
think he actually could have controlled himself, if he 
had wanted. When he hurt people, it was not because 
he was lacking in emotional awareness. Quite the 
contrary: He could size people up, understand their 
inner thoughts, and know how to relate to them, cajole 
them, or hurt them at will.
The nasty edge to his personality was not 
necessary. It hindered him more than it helped him. But 
it did, at times, serve a purpose. Polite and velvety 
leaders, who take care to avoid bruising others, are 
generally not as effective at forcing change. Dozens of 
the colleagues whom Jobs most abused ended their 
litany of horror stories by saying that he got them to do 
things they never dreamed possible. And he created a 
corporation crammed with A players.
The saga of Steve Jobs is the Silicon Valley 
creation myth writ large: launching a startup in his 
parents’ garage and building it into the world’s most 
valuable company. He didn’t invent many things 
outright, but he was a master at putting together ideas, 
art, and technology in ways that invented the future. He 
designed the Mac after appreciating the power of 
graphical interfaces in a way that Xerox was unable to 
do, and he created the iPod after grasping the joy of 
having a thousand songs in your pocket in a way that 
Sony, which had all the assets and heritage, never 
could accomplish. Some leaders push innovations by 
being good at the big picture. Others do so by 
mastering details. Jobs did both, relentlessly. As a 
result he launched a series of products over three 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 733
decades that transformed whole industries:
• The Apple II, which took Wozniak’s circuit board 
and turned it into the first personal computer that was 
not just for hobbyists.
• The Macintosh, which begat the home computer 
revolution and popularized graphical user interfaces.
• Toy Storyand other Pixar blockbusters, which 
opened up the miracle of digital imagination.
• Apple stores, which reinvented the role of a store 
in defining a brand.
• The iPod, which changed the way we consume 
music.
• The iTunes Store, which saved the music 
industry.
• The iPhone, which turned mobile phones into 
music, photography, video, email, and web devices.
• The App Store, which spawned a new contentcreation industry.
• The iPad, which launched tablet computing and 
offered a platform for digital newspapers, magazines, 
books, and videos.
• iCloud, which demoted the computer from its 
central role in managing our content and let all of our 
devices sync seamlessly.
• And Apple itself, which Jobs considered his 
greatest creation, a place where imagination was 
nurtured, applied, and executed in ways so creative that 
it became the most valuable company on earth.
Was he smart? No, not exceptionally. Instead, he 
was a genius. His imaginative leaps were instinctive, 
unexpected, and at times magical. He was, indeed, an 
example of what the mathematician Mark Kac called a 
magician genius, someone whose insights come out of 
the blue and require intuition more than mere mental 
processing power. Like a pathfinder, he could absorb 
information, sniff the winds, and sense what lay ahead.
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 734
Steve Jobs thus became the greatest business 
executive of our era, the one most certain to be 
remembered a century from now. History will place him 
in the pantheon right next to Edison and Ford. More 
than anyone else of his time, he made products that 
were completely innovative, combining the power of 
poetry and processors. With a ferocity that could make 
working with him as unsettling as it was inspiring, he 
also built the world’s most creative company. And he 
was able to infuse into its DNA the design sensibilities, 
perfectionism, and imagination that make it likely to be, 
even decades from now, the company that thrives best 
at the intersection of artistry and technology.
And One More Thing . . .
Biographers are supposed to have the last word. 
But this is a biography of Steve Jobs. Even though he 
did not impose his legendary desire for control on this 
project, I suspect that I would not be conveying the right 
feel for him—the way he asserted himself in any 
situation—if I just shuffled him onto history’s stage 
without letting him have some last words.
Over the course of our conversations, there were 
many times when he reflected on what he hoped his 
legacy would be. Here are those thoughts, in his own 
words:
My passion has been to build an enduring 
company where people were motivated to make great 
products. Everything else was secondary. Sure, it was 
great to make a profit, because that was what allowed 
you to make great products. But the products, not the 
profits, were the motivation. Sculley flipped these 
priorities to where the goal was to make money. It’s a 
subtle difference, but it ends up meaning everything: 
the people you hire, who gets promoted, what you 
discuss in meetings.
Some people say, “Give the customers what they 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 735
want.” But that’s not my approach. Our job is to figure 
out what they’re going to want before they do. I think 
Henry Ford once said, “If I’d asked customers what they 
wanted, they would have told me, ‘A faster horse!’” 
People don’t know what they want until you show it to 
them. That’s why I never rely on market research. Our 
task is to read things that are not yet on the page.
Edwin Land of Polaroid talked about the 
intersection of the humanities and science. I like that 
intersection. There’s something magical about that 
place. There are a lot of people innovating, and that’s 
not the main distinction of my career. The reason Apple 
resonates with people is that there’s a deep current of 
humanity in our innovation. I think great artists and 
great engineers are similar, in that they both have a 
desire to express themselves. In fact some of the best 
people working on the original Mac were poets and 
musicians on the side. In the seventies computers 
became a way for people to express their creativity. 
Great artists like Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo 
were also great at science. Michelangelo knew a lot 
about how to quarry stone, not just how to be a sculptor.
People pay us to integrate things for them, 
because they don’t have the time to think about this stuff 
24/7. If you have an extreme passion for producing 
great products, it pushes you to be integrated, to 
connect your hardware and your software and content 
management. You want to break new ground, so you 
have to do it yourself. If you want to allow your products 
to be open to other hardware or software, you have to 
give up some of your vision.
At different times in the past, there were 
companies that exemplified Silicon Valley. It was 
Hewlett-Packard for a long time. Then, in the 
semiconductor era, it was Fairchild and Intel. I think that 
it was Apple for a while, and then that faded. And then 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 736
today, I think it’s Apple and Google—and a little more 
so Apple. I think Apple has stood the test of time. It’s 
been around for a while, but it’s still at the cutting edge 
of what’s going on.
 It’s easy to throw stones at Microsoft. They’ve 
clearly fallen from their dominance. They’ve become 
mostly irrelevant. And yet I appreciate what they did and 
how hard it was. They were very good at the business 
side of things. They were never as ambitious productwise as they should have been. Bill likes to portray 
himself as a man of the product, but he’s really not. He’s 
a businessperson. Winning business was more 
important than making great products. He ended up the 
wealthiest guy around, and if that was his goal, then he 
achieved it. But it’s never been my goal, and I wonder, 
in the end, if it was his goal. I admire him for the 
company he built—it’s impressive—and I enjoyed 
working with him. He’s bright and actually has a good 
sense of humor. But Microsoft never had the humanities 
and liberal arts in its DNA. Even when they saw the 
Mac, they couldn’t copy it well. They totally didn’t get it.
I have my own theory about why decline happens 
at companies like IBM or Microsoft. The company does 
a great job, innovates and becomes a monopoly or 
close to it in some field, and then the quality of the 
product becomes less important. The company starts 
valuing the great salesmen, because they’re the ones 
who can move the needle on revenues, not the product 
engineers and designers. So the salespeople end up 
running the company. John Akers at IBM was a smart, 
eloquent, fantastic salesperson, but he didn’t know 
anything about product. The same thing happened at 
Xerox. When the sales guys run the company, the 
product guys don’t matter so much, and a lot of them 
just turn off. It happened at Apple when Sculley came 
in, which was my fault, and it happened when Ballmer 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 737
took over at Microsoft. Apple was lucky and it 
rebounded, but I don’t think anything will change at 
Microsoft as long as Ballmer is running it.
I hate it when people call themselves 
“entrepreneurs” when what they’re really trying to do is 
launch a startup and then sell or go public, so they can 
cash in and move on. They’re unwilling to do the work it 
takes to build a real company, which is the hardest work 
in business. That’s how you really make a contribution 
and add to the legacy of those who went before. You 
build a company that will still stand for something a 
generation or two from now. That’s what Walt Disney 
did, and Hewlett and Packard, and the people who built 
Intel. They created a company to last, not just to make 
money. That’s what I want Apple to be.
I don’t think I run roughshod over people, but if 
something sucks, I tell people to their face. It’s my job to 
be honest. I know what I’m talking about, and I usually 
turn out to be right. That’s the culture I tried to create. 
We are brutally honest with each other, and anyone can 
tell me they think I am full of shit and I can tell them the 
same. And we’ve had some rip-roaring arguments, 
where we are yelling at each other, and it’s some of the 
best times I’ve ever had. I feel totally comfortable saying 
“Ron, that store looks like shit” in front of everyone else. 
Or I might say “God, we really fucked up the 
engineering on this” in front of the person that’s 
responsible. That’s the ante for being in the room: 
You’ve got to be able to be super honest. Maybe there’s 
a better way, a gentlemen’s club where we all wear ties 
and speak in this Brahmin language and velvet codewords, but I don’t know that way, because I am middle 
class from California.
I was hard on people sometimes, probably harder 
than I needed to be. I remember the time when Reed 
was six years old, coming home, and I had just fired 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 738
somebody that day, and I imagined what it was like for 
that person to tell his family and his young son that he 
had lost his job. It was hard. But somebody’s got to do it. 
I figured that it was always my job to make sure that the 
team was excellent, and if I didn’t do it, nobody was 
going to do it.
You always have to keep pushing to innovate. 
Dylan could have sung protest songs forever and 
probably made a lot of money, but he didn’t. He had to 
move on, and when he did, by going electric in 1965, 
he alienated a lot of people. His 1966 Europe tour was 
his greatest. He would come on and do a set of acoustic 
guitar, and the audiences loved him. Then he brought 
out what became The Band, and they would all do an 
electric set, and the audience sometimes booed. There 
was one point where he was about to sing “Like a 
Rolling Stone” and someone from the audience yells 
“Judas!” And Dylan then says, “Play it fucking loud!” 
And they did. The Beatles were the same way. They 
kept evolving, moving, refining their art. That’s what I’ve 
always tried to do—keep moving. Otherwise, as Dylan 
says, if you’re not busy being born, you’re busy dying.
What drove me? I think most creative people want 
to express appreciation for being able to take 
advantage of the work that’s been done by others 
before us. I didn’t invent the language or mathematics I 
use. I make little of my own food, none of my own 
clothes. Everything I do depends on other members of 
our species and the shoulders that we stand on. And a 
lot of us want to contribute something back to our 
species and to add something to the flow. It’s about 
trying to express something in the only way that most of 
us know how—because we can’t write Bob Dylan 
songs or Tom Stoppard plays. We try to use the talents 
we do have to express our deep feelings, to show our 
appreciation of all the contributions that came before 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 739
us, and to add something to that flow. That’s what has 
driven me.
Coda
One sunny afternoon, when he wasn’t feeling well, 
Jobs sat in the garden behind his house and reflected 
on death. He talked about his experiences in India 
almost four decades earlier, his study of Buddhism, and 
his views on reincarnation and spiritual transcendence. 
“I’m about fifty-fifty on believing in God,” he said. “For 
most of my life, I’ve felt that there must be more to our 
existence than meets the eye.”
He admitted that, as he faced death, he might be 
overestimating the odds out of a desire to believe in an 
afterlife. “I like to think that something survives after you 
die,” he said. “It’s strange to think that you accumulate 
all this experience, and maybe a little wisdom, and it 
just goes away. So I really want to believe that 
something survives, that maybe your consciousness 
endures.”
He fell silent for a very long time. “But on the other 
hand, perhaps it’s like an on-off switch,” he said. “Click!
And you’re gone.”
Then he paused again and smiled slightly. “Maybe 
that’s why I never liked to put on-off switches on Apple 
devices.”

I’m deeply grateful to John and Ann Doerr, 
Laurene Powell, Mona Simpson, and Ken Auletta, all of 
whom helped get this project launched and provided 
invaluable support along the way. Alice Mayhew, who 
has been my editor at Simon & Schuster for thirty years, 
and Jonathan Karp, the publisher, both were 
extraordinarily diligent and attentive in shepherding this 
book, as was Amanda Urban, my agent. Crary Pullen 
was dogged in tracking down photos, and my assistant, 
Pat Zindulka, calmly facilitated things. I also want to 
thank my father, Irwin, and my daughter, Betsy, for 
reading the book and offering advice. And as always, I 
am most deeply indebted to my wife, Cathy, for her 
editing, suggestions, wise counsel, and so very much 
more.