She wanted only to sleep.
The plane had touched down two hours late and there’d been a marathon wait for the luggage. And then the car service had messed up; the limo’d left an hour ago. So now they were waiting for a cab.
She stood in the line of passengers, her lean body listing against the weight of her laptop computer. John rattled on about interest rates and new ways of restructuring the deal but all she could think was: Friday night, 10:30. I wanna pull on my sweats and hit the hay.
Gazing at the endless stream of Yellow Cabs. Something about the color and the similarity of the cars reminded her of insects. And she shivered with the creepy-crawly feeling she remembered from her childhood in the mountains when she and her brother’d find a gut-killed badger or kick over a red-ant nest and gaze at the wet mass of squirming bodies and legs.
T.J. Colfax shuffled forward as the cab pulled up and squealed to a stop.
The cabbie popped the trunk but stayed in the car. They had to load their own luggage, which ticked John off. He was used to people doing things for him. Tammie Jean didn’t care; she was still occasionally surprised to find that she had a secretary to type and file for her. She tossed her suitcase in, closed the trunk and climbed inside.
John got in after her, slammed the door and mopped his pudgy face and balding scalp as if the effort of pitching his suit-bag in the trunk had exhausted him.
“First stop East Seventy-second,” John muttered through the divider.
“Then the Upper West Side,” T.J. added. The Plexiglas between the front and back seats was badly scuffed and she could hardly see the driver.
The cab shot away from the curb and was soon cruising down the expressway toward Manhattan.
“Look,” John said, “that’s why all the crowds.”
He was pointing at a billboard welcoming delegates to the UN peace conference, which was starting on Monday. There were going to be ten thousand visitors in town. T.J. gazed up at the billboard—blacks and whites and Asians, waving and smiling. There was something wrong about the artwork, though. The proportions and the colors were off. And the faces all seemed pasty.
T.J. muttered, “Body snatchers.”
They sped along the broad expressway, which glared an uneasy yellow under the highway lights. Past the old Navy Yard, past the Brooklyn piers.
John finally stopped talking and pulled out his Texas Instruments, started crunching some numbers. T.J. sat back in the seat, looking at the steamy sidewalks and sullen faces of people sitting on the brownstone stoops overlooking the highway. They seemed half-comatose in the heat.
It was hot in the cab too and T.J. reached for the button to lower the window. She wasn’t surprised to find that it didn’t work. She reached across John. His was broken too. It was then that she noticed that the door locks were missing.
The door handles too.
Her hand slid over the door, feeling for the nub of the handle. Nothing—it was as if someone had cut it oft’ with a hacksaw.
“What?” John asked.
“Well, the doors ... How do we open them?”
John was looking from one to the other when the sign for the Midtown Tunnel came and went.
“Hey!” John rapped on the divider. “You missed the turn. Where’re you going?”
“Maybe he’s going to take the Queensboro,” T.J. suggested. The bridge meant a longer route but avoided the tunnel’s toll. She sat forward and tapped on the Plexiglas, using her ring.
“Are you taking the bridge?”
He ignored them.
“Hey!”
And a moment later they sped past the Queensboro turnoff.
“Shit,” John cried. “Where’re you taking us? Harlem. I’ll bet he’s taking us to Harlem.”
T.J. looked out the window. A car was moving parallel to them, passing slowly. She banged on the window hard.
“Help!” she shouted. “Please ...”
The car’s driver glanced at her once, then again, frowning. He slowed and pulled behind them but with a hard jolt the cab skidded down an exit ramp into Queens, turned into an alley and sped through a deserted warehouse district. They must’ve been going sixty miles an hour.
“What’re youdoing?”
T.J. banged on the divider. “Slow down. Where are?—” “Oh, God, no,” John muttered. “Look.”
The driver had pulled on a ski mask. “What do you want?” T.J. shouted. “Money? We’ll give you money.” Still, silence from the front of the cab.
T.J. ripped open her Targus bag and pulled out her black laptop. She reared back and slammed the corner of the computer into the window. The glass held though the sound of the bang seemed to scare the hell out of the driver. The cab swerved and nearly hit the brick wall of the building they were speeding past.
“Money! How much? I can give you a lot of money!” John sputtered, tears dripping down his fat cheeks.
T.J. rammed the window again with the laptop. The screen flew off under the force of the blow but the window remained intact.
She tried once more and the body of the computer split open and fell from her hands.
“Oh, shit ...”
They both pitched forward “violently as the cab skidded to a stop in a dingy, unlit cul-de-sac. The driver climbed out of the cab, a small pistol in his hand.
“Please, no,” she pleaded.
He walked to the back of the cab and leaned down, peering into the greasy glass. He stood there for a long time, as she and John scooted backwards, against the opposite door, their sweating bodies pressed together.
The driver cupped his hands against the glare from the streetlights and looked at them closely.
A sudden crack resonated through the air, and T.J. flinched. John gave a short scream.
In the distance, behind the driver, the sky filled with red and blue fiery streaks. More pops and whistles. He turned and gazed up as a huge, orange spider spread over the city.
Fireworks, T.J. recalled reading in theTimes . A present from the mayor and the UN secretary-general for the conference delegates, welcoming them to the greatest city on earth.
The driver turned back to the cab. With a loud snap he pulled up on the latch and slowly opened the door.
The call was anonymous. As usual.
So there was no way of checking back to see which vacant lot the RP meant. Central had radioed, “He said Thirty-seven near Eleven. That’s all.”
Reporting parties weren’t known for Triple A directions to crime scenes.
Already sweating though it was just nine in the morning, Amelia Sachs pushed through a stand of tall grass. She was walking the strip search what the Crime Scene people called it an S-shaped pattern. Nothing. She bent her head to the speaker/mike pinned to her navy-blue uniform blouse.
“Portable 5885. Can’t find anything, Central. You have a further-to?”
Through crisp static the dispatcher replied, “Nothing more on location, 5885. But one thing ... the RP said he hoped the vic was dead. K.”
“Say again, Central.”
“The RP said he hoped the victim was dead. For his sake. K.”
“K.”
Hoped the vic was dead?
Sachs struggled over a wilted chain-link and searched another empty lot. Nothing.
She wanted to quit. Call in a 10-90, unfounded report, and go back to the Deuce, which was her regular beat. Her knees hurt and she was hot as stew in this lousy August weather. She wanted to slip into the Port Authority, hang with the kids and have a tall can of Arizona iced tea. Then, at 11:30 just a couple of hours away she’d clean out her locker at Midtown South and head downtown for the training session.
But she didn’t, couldn’t blow off the call. She kept going: along the hot sidewalk, through the gap between two abandoned tenements, through another vegetation-filled field.
Her long index finger pushed into her flattop uniform cap, through the layers of long red hair piled high on her head. She scratched compulsively then reached up underneath the cap and scratched some more. Sweat ran down her forehead and tickled and she dug into her eyebrow too.
Thinking: My last two hours on the street. I can live with it.
As Sachs stepped farther into the brush she felt the first uneasiness of the morning. Somebody’s watching me.
The hot wind rustled the dry brush and cars and trucks sped noisily to and from the Lincoln Tunnel. She thought what Patrol officers often did: This city is so damn loud somebody could come up right behind me, knife-range away, and I’d never know it.
Or line up iron sights on my back ...
She spun around quickly.
Nothing but leaves and rusting machinery and trash.
Climbing a pile of stones, wincing. Amelia Sachs, thirty-one—amere thirty-one, her mother would say—was plagued by arthritis. Inherited from her grandfather as clearly as she’d received her mother’s willowy build and her father’s good looks and career (the red hair was anybody’s guess). Another jolt of pain as she eased through a tall curtain of dying bushes. She was fortunate to stop herself one pace from a sheer thirty-foot drop.
Below her was a gloomy canyon—cut deep into the bedrock of the West Side. Through it ran the Amtrak roadbed for trains bound north.
She squinted, looking at the floor of the canyon, not far from the railroad bed.
What is that?
A circle of overturned earth, a small tree branch sticking out of the top? It looked like—
Oh, my good Lord ...
She shivered at the sight. Felt the nausea rise, prickling her skin like a wave of flame. She managed to step on that tiny part inside her that wanted to turn away and pretend she hadn’t seen this.
He hoped the victim was dead. For his sake.
She ran toward an iron ladder that led down from the sidewalk to the roadbed. She reached for the railing but stopped just in time. Shit. The perp might’ve escaped this way. If she touched it she might screw up any prints he’d left. Okay, we do it the hard way. Breathing deeply to dull the pain in her joints, she began climbing down the rock face itself, slipping her issue shoes—polished like silver for the first day of her new assignment—into crevices cut in the stone. She jumped the last four feet to the roadbed and ran to the grave.
“Oh, man ...”
It wasn’t a branch sticking out of the ground; it was a hand. The body’d been buried vertical and the dirt piled on until just the forearm, wrist and hand protruded. She stared at the ring finger; all the flesh had been whittled away and a woman’s diamond cocktail ring had been replaced on the bloody, stripped bone.
Sachs dropped to her knees and began to dig.
Dirt flying under her dog-paddling hands, she noticed that the uncut fingers were splayed, stretched beyond where they could normally bend. Which told her that the vic had been alive when the last shovelful of dirt was spooned onto the face.
And maybe still was.
Sachs dug furiously into the loosely packed earth, cutting her hand on a bottle shard, her dark blood mixing into the darker earth. And then she came to the hair and a forehead below it, a cyanotic bluish-gray from the lack of oxygen. Digging further until she could see the dull eyes and the mouth, which had twisted into a horrible grin as the vic had tried in the last few seconds to stay above the rising tide of black earth.
It wasn’t a woman. Despite the ring. He was a heavy-set man in his fifties. As dead as the soil he floated in.
Backing away, she couldn’t take her eyes off his and nearly stumbled over a railroad track. She could think of absolutely nothing for a full minute. Except what it must’ve been like to die that way.
Then: Come on , honey. You got yourself a homicide crime scene and you’re first officer. You know what to do.
ADAPT
A is for Arrest a known perp.
D is for Detain material witnesses and suspects. A is for Assess the crime scene.
P is for ...
What was P again?
She lowered her head to the mike. “Portable 5885 to Central. Further-to. I’ve got a 10-29 by the train tracks at Three-eight and Eleven. Homicide, K. Need detectives, CS, bus and tour doctor. K.”
“Roger, 5885. Perp in custody, K?” “No perp.”
“Five-eight-eight-five, K.”
Sachs stared at the finger, the one whittled down to the bone. The incongruous ring. The eyes. And the grin ... oh, that fucking grin. A shudder ripped through her body. Amelia Sachs had swum among snakes in summer-camp rivers and had boasted truthfully she’d have no problem bungee-jumping from a hundred-foot bridge. But let her think of confinement ... think of being trapped, immobile, and the panic attack’d grab her like an electric shock. Which was why Sachs walked fast when she walked and why she drove cars like light itself.
When you move they can’t getcha ...
She heard a sound and cocked her head.
A rumble, deep, getting louder.
Scraps of paper blowing along the roadbed of the tracks. Dust dervishes swirling about her like angry
ghosts.
Then a low wail ...
Five-foot-nine Patrol Officer Amelia Sachs found herself facing down a thirty-ton Amtrak locomotive, the red, white and blue slab of steel approaching at a determined ten miles an hour.
“Hold up, there!” she shouted.
The engineer ignored her.
Sachs jogged onto the roadbed and planted herself right in the middle of the track, spread her stance and waved her arms, signaling him to stop. The locomotive squealed to a halt. The engineer stuck his head out the window.
“You can’t go through here,” she told him.
He asked her what she meant. She thought he looked woefully young to be driving such a big train.
“It’s a crime scene. Please shut off the engine.”
“Lady, I don’t see any crimes.”
But Sachs wasn’t listening. She was looking up at a gap in the chain-link on the west side of the train viaduct, at the top, near Eleventh Avenue.
That would have been one way to get the body here without being seen—parking on Eleventh and dragging the body through the narrow alley to the cliff. On Thirty-seventh, the cross street, he could be spotted from two dozen apartment windows.
“That train, sir. Just leave it right there.”
“I can’t leave it here.”
“Please shut off the engine.”
“We don’t shut off the engines of trains like this. They run all the time.”
“And call the dispatcher. Or somebody. Have them stop the southbound trains too.” “We can’t do that.”
“Now, sir. I’ve got the number of that vehicle of yours.” “Vehicle?”
“I’d suggest you do it immediately,” Sachs barked. “What’re you going to do, lady? Gimme a ticket?”
But Amelia Sachs was once again climbing back up the stone walls, her poor joints creaking, her lips
tasting limestone dust, clay and her own sweat. She jogged to the alley she’d noticed from the roadbed and then turned around, studying Eleventh Avenue and the Javits Center across it. The hall was bustling with crowds—spectators and press. A huge banner proclaimed, Welcome UN Delegates! But earlier this morning, when the street was deserted, the perp could easily have found a parking space along here and carried the body to the tracks undetected. Sachs strode to Eleventh, surveyed the six-lane avenue, which was jammed with traffic.
Let’s do it.
She waded into the sea of cars and trucks and stopped the northbound lanes cold. Several drivers tried end runs and she had to issue two citations and finally drag trash cans out into the middle of the street as a barricade to make sure the good residents did their civic duty.
Sachs had finally remembered the next of the first officer’s ADAPT rules.
P is for Protect the crime scene.
The sound of angry horns began to fill the hazy morning sky, soon supplemented by the drivers’ angrier shouts. A short time later she heard the sirens join the cacophony as the first of the emergency vehicles arrived.
Forty minutes later, the scene was swarming with uniforms and investigators, dozens of them—a lot more than a hit in Hell’s Kitchen, however gruesome the cause of death, seemed to warrant. But, Sachs learned from another cop, this was a hot case, a media groper—the vic was one of two passengers who’d arrived at JFK last night, gotten into a cab and headed for the city. They’d never arrived at their homes.
“CNN’s watching,” the uniform whispered.
So Amelia Sachs wasn’t surprised to see blond Vince Peretti, chief of the Central Investigation and Resource Division, which oversaw the-crime scene unit, climb over the top of the embankment and pause as he brushed dust from his thousand-dollar suit.
She was, however, surprised to see him notice her and gesture her over, a faint smile on his clean-cut face. It occurred to her she was about to receive a nod of gratitude for her Cliffhanger routine. Saved the fingerprints on that ladder, boys. Maybe even a commendation. In the last hour of the last day of Patrol. Going out in a blaze of glory.
He looked her up and down. “Patrolwoman, you’re no rookie, are you? I’m safe in making that assumption.”
“I’m sorry, sir?”
“You’re not a rookie, I assume.”
She wasn’t, not technically, though she had only three years’ service under her belt, unlike most of the other Patrol officers her age; they had nine or ten years in. Sachs had foundered for a few years before attending the academy. “I’m not sure what you’re asking.”
He looked exasperated and the smile vanished. “You were first officer?”
 “Yes sir.”
“Why’d you close down Eleventh Avenue? What were you thinking of?”
She looked along the broad street, which was still blocked by her trash-can barricade. She’d gotten used to the honking but realized now it was really quite loud; the line of cars extended for miles.
“Sir, the first officer’s job is to arrest a perp, detain any witnesses, protect—”
“I know the ADAPT rule, officer. You closed the street to protect the crime scene?”
“Yes sir. I didn’t think the perp would park on the cross street. He could be seen too easily from those apartments. See, there? Eleventh seemed like a better choice.”
“Well, it was a wrong choice. There were no footprints on that side of the tracks, and two sets going to the ladder that leads up to Thirty-seven.”
“I closed Thirty-seven too.”
“That’s my point. That’s all that needed to be closed. And the train?” he asked. “Why’d you stop that?”
“Well, sir. I thought that a train going through the scene might disturb evidence. Or something.”
“Or something , officer?”
“I didn’t express myself very well, sir. I meant—”
“What about Newark Airport?”
“Yes sir.” She looked around for help. There were officers nearby but they were busily ignoring the dressing-down. “What exactly about Newark?”
“Why didn’t you shut that down too?”
Oh, wonderful. A schoolmarm. Her Julia Roberts lips grew taut but she said reasonably, “Sir, in my judgment, it seemed likely that—”
“The New York Thruway would’ve been a good choice too. And the Jersey Pike and Long Island Expressway. I-70, all the way to St. Louis. Those are likely means of escape.”
She lowered her head slightly and stared back at Peretti. The two of them were exactly the same height, though his heels were higher.
“I’ve gotten calls from the commissioner,” he continued, “the head of the Port Authority, the UN secretary-general’s office, the head of that expo” He nodded toward the Javits Center. “We’ve fucked up the conference schedule, a U.S. senator’s speech and traffic on the entire West Side. The train tracks were fifty feet from the vic and the street you closed was a good two hundred feet away and thirty above. I mean, even Hurricane Eva didn’t fuck up Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor like this.”
“I just thought”
Peretti smiled. Because Sachs was a beautiful woman her “foundering” before attending the academy had involved steady assignments for the Chantelle Modeling Agency on Madison Avenue—the cop chose to forgive her.
“Patrolwoman Sachs”—he glanced at the name tag on her chest, flattened chastely by the American Body Armor vest—“an object lesson. Crime scene work is a balance. It’d be nice if we could cordon off the whole city after every homicide and detain about three million people. But we can’t do that. I say this constructively. For your edification.”
“Actually, sir,” she said brusquely, “I’m transferring out of Patrol. Effective as of noon today.”
He nodded, smiled cheerfully. “Then, enough said. But for the record, it was your decision to stop the train and close the street.”
“Yessir, it was,” she said smartly. “No mistake about that.”
He jotted this into a black watch book with slashing strokes of his sweaty pen.
Oh, please ...
“Now, remove those garbage cans. You direct traffic until the street’s clear again. You hear me?”
Without a yes sir or no sir or any other acknowledgment she wandered to Eleventh Avenue and slowly began removing the garbage cans. Every single driver who passed her scowled or muttered something. Sachs glanced at her watch.
An hour to go.
I can live with it.
With a terse flutter of wings the peregrine dropped onto the window ledge. The light outside, mid-morning, was brilliant and the air looked fiercely hot.
“There you are,” the man whispered. Then cocked his head at the sound of the buzzer of the door downstairs.
“Is that him?” he shouted toward the stairs. “Is it?”
Lincoln Rhyme heard nothing in response and turned back to the window. The bird’s head swiveled, a fast, jerky movement that the falcon nevertheless made elegant. Rhyme observed that its talons were bloody. A piece of yellow flesh dangled from the black nutshell beak. It extended a short neck and eased to the nest in movements reminiscent not of a bird’s but a snake’s. The falcon dropped the meat into the upturned mouth of the fuzzy blue hatchling. I’m looking, Rhyme thought, at the only living creature in New York City with no predator. Except maybe God Himself.
He heard the footsteps come up the stairs slowly. “Was that him?” he asked Thom.
The young man answered, “No.”
“Who was it? The doorbell rang, didn’t it?”
Thom’s eyes went to the window. “The bird’s back. Look, bloodstains on your windowsill. Can you see them?”
The female falcon inched into view. Blue-gray like a fish, iridescent. Her head scanned the sky.
“They’re always together. Do they mate for life?” Thom wondered aloud. “Like geese?”
Rhyme’s eyes returned to Thom, who was bent forward at his trim, youthful waist, gazing at the nest through the spattered window.
“Who was it?” Rhyme repeated. The young man was stalling now and it irritated Rhyme.
“A visitor.”
“A visitor? Ha.” Rhyme snorted. He tried to recall when his last visitor had been here. It must have been three months ago. Who’d it been? That reporter maybe or some distant cousin. Well, Peter Taylor, one of Rhyme’s spinal cord specialists. And Blaine had been here several times. But she of course was not a vis-i-tor .
“It’s freezing,” Thom complained. His reaction was to open the window. Immediate gratification. Youth. “Don’t open the window,” Rhyme ordered. “And tell me who the hell’s here.”
“It’s freezing.”
“You’ll disturb the bird. You can turn the air conditioner down. I’ll turn it down.”
“We were here first,” Thom said, further lifting the huge pane of window. “The birds moved in with full knowledge of you.” The falcons glanced toward the noise, glaring. But then they always glared. They remained on the ledge, lording over their domain of anemic ginkgo trees and alternate-side-of-the-street parkers.
Rhyme repeated. “Who is it?”
“Lon Sellitto.”
“Lon?”
What was he doing here?
Thom examined the room. “The place is a mess.”
Rhyme didn’t like the fuss of cleaning. He didn’t like the bustle, the noise of the vacuum—which he found particularly irritating. He was content here, as it was. This room, which he called his office, was on the second floor of his gothic townhouse on the Upper West Side of the city, overlooking Central Park. The room was large, twenty-by-twenty, and virtually every one of those feet was occupied. Sometimes
he closed his eyes, playing a game, and tried to detect the smell of the different objects in the room here. The thousands of books and magazines, the Tower of Pisa stacks of photocopies, the hot transistors of the TV, the dust-frosted lightbulbs, the cork bulletin boards. Vinyl, peroxide, latex, upholstery.
Three different kinds of single-malt Scotch.
Falcon shit.
“I don’t want to see him. Tell him I’m busy.”
“And a young cop. Ernie Banks. No, he was a baseball player, right? You really should let me clean. You never notice how filthy someplace is till people come to call.”
“Come to call? My, that sounds quaint. Victorian. How does this sound? Tell ’em to get the hell out. How’s that for fin-de-siècle etiquette?”
A mess ...
Thom was speaking of the room but Rhyme supposed he meant his boss too.
Rhyme’s hair was black and thick as a twenty-year-old’s though he was twice that age—but the strands were wild and bushy, desperately in need of a wash and cut. His face sprouted a dirty-looking three days’ growth of black beard and he’d wakened with an incessant tickle in his ear, which meant that those hairs needed trimming as well. Rhyme’s nails were long, finger and toe, and he’d been wearing the same clothes for a week—polka-dotted pajamas, god-awful ugly. His eyes were narrow, deep brown, and set in a face that Blaine had told him on a number of occasions, passionate and otherwise, was handsome.
“They want to talk to you,” Thom continued. “They say it’s very important.”
“Well, bully for them.”
“You haven’t seen Lon for nearly a year.”
“Why does that mean I want to see him now? Have you scared off the bird? I’ll be pissed if you have.” “It’s important, Lincoln.”
“Very important, I recall you saying. Where’s that doctor? He might’ve called. I was dozing earlier. And you were out.”
“You’ve been awake since six a.m.”
“No.” He paused. “I woke up, yes. But then I dozed off. I was sound asleep. Did you check messages?”
Thom said, “Yes. Nothing from him.”
“He said he’d be here midmorning.”
“And it’s just past eleven. Maybe we’ll hold off notifying air-sea rescue. What do you say?”
 “Have you been on the phone?” Rhyme asked abruptly. “Maybe he tried to call while you were on.”
“I was talking to—”
“Did I say anything?” Rhyme asked. “Now you’re angry. I didn’t say you shouldn’t be making phone calls. You can do that. You’ve always been able to do that. My point is just that he might’ve called while you were on the line.”
“No, your point this morning is to be a shit.”
“There you go. You know, they have this thing—call waiting. You can get two calls at once. I wish we
had that. What does my old friend Lon want? And his friend the baseball player?” “Ask them.”
“I’m asking you .”
“They want to see you. That’s all I know.”
“About something very important.”
“Lincoln.” Thom sighed. The good-looking young man ran his hand through his blond hair. He wore tan slacks and a white shirt, with a blue floral tie, immaculately knotted. When he’d hired Thom a year ago Rhyme had said he could wear jeans and T-shirts if he wanted. But he’d been dressed impeccably every day since. Rhyme didn’t know why it contributed to the decision to keep the young man on, but it had. None of Thom’s predecessors had lasted more than six weeks. The number of those who quit was exactly equal to the firees.
“All right, what did you tell them?”
“I told them to give me a few minutes to make sure you were decent then they could come up. Briefly.”
“You did that. Without asking me. Thank you very much.”
Thom retreated a few steps and called down the narrow stairway to the first floor, “Come on, gentlemen.”
“They told you something, didn’t they?” Rhyme said. “You’re holding out on me.”
Thom didn’t answer and Rhyme watched the two men approach. As they entered the room Rhyme spoke first. He said to Thom, “Close the curtain. You’ve already upset the birds way too much.”
Which really meant only that he’d had enough of the sputtering sunlight.
Mute.
With the foul, sticky tape on her mouth she couldn’t speak a word and that made her feel more helpless than the metal handcuffs tight on her wrists. Than the grip of his short, strong fingers on her biceps. The taxi driver, still in his ski mask, led her down the grimy, wet corridor, past rows of ducts and piping. They were in the basement of an office building. She had no idea where.
If I could talk to him ...
T.J. Colfax was a player, the bitch of Morgan Stanley’s third floor. A negotiator.
Money? You want money? I’ll get you money, lots of it, boy. Bushels. She thought this a dozen times, trying to catch his eye, as if she could actually force the words into his thoughts.
Pleeeeeeeease, she begged silently, and began thinking about the mechanics of cashing in her 401(k) and giving him her retirement fund. Oh, please ...
She remembered last night: The man turning back from the fireworks, dragging them from the cab, handcuffing them. He’d thrown them into the trunk and they’d begun driving again. First over rough cobblestones and broken asphalt then smooth roads then rough again. She heard the whir of wheels on a bridge. More turns, more rough roads. Finally, the cab stopped and the driver got out and seemed to open a gate or some doors. He drove into a garage, she thought. All the sounds of the city were cut off and the car’s bubbling exhaust rose in volume, reverberating off close walls.
Then the cab trunk opened and the man pulled her out. He yanked the diamond ring off her finger and pocketed it. Then he led her past walls of spooky faces, faded paintings of blank eyes staring at her, a butcher, a devil, three sorrowful children painted on the crumbling plaster. Dragged her down into a moldy basement and dumped her on the floor. He clopped upstairs, leaving her in the dark, surrounded by a sickening smell rotting flesh, garbage. There she’d lain for hours, sleeping a little, crying a lot. She’d wakened abruptly at a loud sound. A sharp explosion. Nearby. Then more troubled sleep.
A half hour ago he’d come for her again. Led her to the trunk and they’d driven for another twenty minutes. Here. Wherever here was.
They now walked into a dim basement room. In the center was a thick black pipe; he handcuffed her to it then gripped her feet and pulled them out straight in front of her, propping her in a sitting position. 




