Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say
that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last
people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious,
because they just didn't hold with such nonsense.
Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made
drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did
have a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and had
nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she
spent so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on the
neighbors. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their
opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.
The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and
their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it. They didn't
think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs.
Potter was Mrs. Dursley's sister, but they hadn't met for several years;
in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn't have a sister, because her
sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was
possible to be. The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors would
say if the Potters arrived in the street. The Dursleys knew that the
Potters had a small son, too, but they had never even seen him. This boy
was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn't want
Dudley mixing with a child like that.
When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story
starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that
strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the
country. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for
work, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming
Dudley into his high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window.
At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs.
Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but missed,2
because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the
walls. "Little tyke," chortled Mr. Dursley as he left the house. He got
into his car and backed out of number four's drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of
something peculiar -- a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr. Dursley
didn't realize what he had seen -- then he jerked his head around to
look again. There was a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet
Drive, but there wasn't a map in sight. What could he have been thinking
of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr. Dursley blinked and
stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around the
corner and up the road, he watched the cat in his mirror. It was now
reading the sign that said Privet Drive -- no, looking at the sign; cats
couldn't read maps or signs. Mr. Dursley gave himself a little shake and
put the cat out of his mind. As he drove toward town he thought of
nothing except a large order of drills he was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by something
else. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he couldn't help
noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people
about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn't bear people who dressed in
funny clothes -- the getups you saw on young people! He supposed this
was some stupid new fashion. He drummed his fingers on the steering
wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite
close by. They were whispering excitedly together. Mr. Dursley was
enraged to see that a couple of them weren't young at all; why, that man
had to be older than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The
nerve of him! But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some
silly stunt -- these people were obviously collecting for something...
yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr.
Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills.
Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office on the
ninth floor. If he hadn't, he might have found it harder to concentrate
on drills that morning. He didn't see the owls swoop ing past in broad
daylight, though people down in the street did; they pointed and gazed
open- mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead. Most of them had never
seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectly
normal, owl-free morning. He yelled at five different people. He made
several important telephone calls and shouted a bit more. He was in a
very good mood until lunchtime, when he thought he'd stretch his legs
and walk across the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery.3
He'd forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a group of
them next to the baker's. He eyed them angrily as he passed. He didn't
know why, but they made him uneasy. This bunch were whispering
excitedly, too, and he couldn't see a single collecting tin. It was on
his way back past them, clutching a large doughnut in a bag, that he
caught a few words of what they were saying.
"The Potters, that's right, that's what I heard yes, their son, Harry"
Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked back at the
whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but thought better
of it.
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his office, snapped at his
secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had almost
finished dialing his home number when he changed his mind. He put the
receiver back down and stroked his mustache, thinking... no, he was
being stupid. Potter wasn't such an unusual name. He was sure there were
lots of people called Potter who had a son called Harry. Come to think
of it, he wasn't even sure his nephew was called Harry. He'd never even
seen the boy. It might have been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no point
in worrying Mrs. Dursley; she always got so upset at any mention of her
sister. He didn't blame her -- if he'd had a sister like that... but all
the same, those people in cloaks...
He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon and
when he left the building at five o'clock, he was still so worried that
he walked straight into someone just outside the door.
"Sorry," he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost fell. It
was a few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the man was wearing a
violet cloak. He didn't seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the
ground. On the contrary, his face split into a wide smile and he said in
a squeaky voice that made passersby stare, "Don't be sorry, my dear sir,
for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has gone at
last! Even Muggles like yourself should be celebrating, this happy,
happy day!"
And the old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the middle and walked off.
Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged by a complete
stranger. He also thought he had been called a Muggle, whatever that
was. He was rattled. He hurried to his car and set off for home, hoping4
he was imagining things, which he had never hoped before, because he
didn't approve of imagination.
As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thing he saw --
and it didn't improve his mood -- was the tabby cat he'd spotted that
morning. It was now sitting on his garden wall. He was sure it was the
same one; it had the same markings around its eyes.
"Shoo!" said Mr. Dursley loudly. The cat didn't move. It just gave him a
stern look. Was this normal cat behavior? Mr. Dursley wondered. Trying
to pull himself together, he let himself into the house. He was still
determined not to mention anything to his wife.
Mrs. Dursley had had a nice, normal day. She told him over dinner all
about Mrs. Next Door's problems with her daughter and how Dudley had
learned a new word ("Won't!"). Mr. Dursley tried to act normally. When
Dudley had been put to bed, he went into the living room in time to
catch the last report on the evening news:
"And finally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the nation's
owls have been behaving very unusually today. Although owls normally
hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight, there have been
hundreds of sightings of these birds flying in every direction since
sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the owls have suddenly
changed their sleeping pattern." The newscaster allowed himself a grin.
"Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim McGuffin with the weather. Going
to be any more showers of owls tonight, Jim?"
"Well, Ted," said the weatherman, "I don't know about that, but it's not
only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewers as far apart as
Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to tell me that instead
of the rain I promised yesterday, they've had a downpour of shooting
stars! Perhaps people have been celebrating Bonfire Night early -- it's
not until next week, folks! But I can promise a wet night tonight."
Mr. Dursley sat frozen in his armchair. Shooting stars all over Britain?
Owls flying by daylight? Mysterious people in cloaks all over the place?
And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters...
Mrs. Dursley came into the living room carrying two cups of tea. It was
no good. He'd have to say something to her. He cleared his throat
nervously. "Er -- Petunia, dear -- you haven't heard from your sister
lately, have you? Harry had almost forgotten that the exam results were still to come, but
come they did. To their great surprise, both he and Ron passed with good
marks; Hermione, of course, had the best grades of the first years. Even
Neville scraped through, his good Herbology mark making up for his
abysmal Potions one. They had hoped that Goyle, who was almost as stupid
as he was mean, might be thrown out, but he had passed, too. It was a
shame, but as Ron said, you couldn't have everything in life.
And suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their trunks were packed,
Neville's toad was found lurking in a corner of the toilets; notes were
handed out to all students, warning them not to use magic over the
holidays ("I always hope they'll forget to give us these," said Fred
Weasley sadly); Hagrid was there to take them down to the fleet of boats
that sailed across the lake; they were boarding the Hogwarts Express;
talking and laughing as the countryside became greener and tidier;
eating Bettie Bott's Every Flavor Beans as they sped past Muggle towns;
pulling off their wizard robes and putting on jackets and coats; pulling
into platform nine and three-quarters at King's Cross Station.
It took quite a while for them all to get off the platform. A wizened
old guard was up by the ticket barrier, letting them go through the gate
in twos and threes so they didn't attract attention by all bursting out
of a solid wall at once and alarming the Muggles. "Everyone thinks I'm special," he said at last. "All those people in the
Leaky Cauldron, Professor Quirrell, Mr. Ollivander... but I don't know
anything about magic at all. How can they expect great things? I'm
famous and I can't even remember what I'm famous for. I don't know what
happened when Vol-, sorry -- I mean, the night my parents died."
Hagrid leaned across the table. Behind the wild beard and eyebrows he
wore a very kind smile.
"Don' you worry, Harry. You'll learn fast enough. Everyone starts at the
beginning at Hogwarts, you'll be just fine. just be yerself. I know it's
hard. Yeh've been singled out, an' that's always hard. But yeh'll have a
great time at Hogwarts -- I did -- still do, 'smatter of fact."
Hagrid helped Harry on to the train that would take him back to the
Dursleys, then handed him an envelope.
"Yer ticket fer Hogwarts, " he said. "First o' September -- King's Cross
-- it's all on yer ticket. Any problems with the Dursleys, send me a
letter with yer owl, she'll know where to find me.... See yeh soon,
Harry."
The train pulled out of the station. Harry wanted to watch Hagrid until
he was out of sight; he rose in his seat and pressed his nose against
the window, but he blinked and Hagrid had gone.
Harry woke at five o'clock the next morning and was too excited and
nervous to go back to sleep. He got up and pulled on his jeans because
he didn't want to walk into the station in his wizard's robes -- he'd
change on the train. He checked his Hogwarts list yet again to make sure
he had everything he needed, saw that Hedwig was shut safely in her
cage, and then paced the room, waiting for the Dursleys to get up. Two
hours later, Harry's huge, heavy trunk had been loaded into the
Dursleys' car, Aunt Petunia had talked Dudley into sitting next to
Harry, and they had set off.
They reached King's Cross at half past ten. Uncle Vernon dumped Harry's
trunk onto a cart and wheeled it into the station for him. Harry thought
this was strangely kind until Uncle Vernon stopped dead, facing the
platforms with a nasty grin on his face. Harry's last month with the Dursleys wasn't fun. True, Dudley was now so
scared of Harry he wouldn't stay in the same room, while Aunt Petunia
and Uncle Vernon didn't shut Harry in his cupboard, force him to do
anything, or shout at him -- in fact, they didn't speak to him at all.
Half terrified, half furious, they acted as though any chair with Harry
in it were empty. Although this was an improvement in many ways, it did
become a bit depressing after a while.69
Harry kept to his room, with his new owl for company. He had decided to
call her Hedwig, a name he had found in A History of Magic. His school
books were very interesting. He lay on his bed reading late into the
night, Hedwig swooping in and out of the open window as she pleased. It
was lucky that Aunt Petunia didn't come in to vacuum anymore, because
Hedwig kept bringing back dead mice. Every night before he went to
sleep, Harry ticked off another day on the piece of paper he had pinned
to the wall, counting down to September the first.
On the last day of August he thought he'd better speak to his aunt and
uncle about getting to King's Cross station the next day, so he went
down to the living room where they were watching a quiz show on
television. He cleared his throat to let them know he was there, and
Dudley screamed and ran from the room. "Have a good term," said Uncle Vernon with an even nastier smile. He
left without another word. Harry turned and saw the Dursleys drive away.
All three of them were laughing. Harry's mouth went rather dry. What on
earth was he going to do? He was starting to attract a lot of funny
looks, because of Hedwig. He'd have to ask someone.
He stopped a passing guard, but didn't dare mention platform nine and
three-quarters. The guard had never heard of Hogwarts and when Harry
couldn't even tell him what part of the country it was in, he started to
get annoyed, as though Harry was being stupid on purpose. Getting
desperate, Harry asked for the train that left at eleven o'clock, but
the guard said there wasn't one. In the end the guard strode away,
muttering about time wasters. Harry was now trying hard not to panic.
According to the large clock over the arrivals board, he had ten minutes
left to get on the train to Hogwarts and he had no idea how to do it; he
was stranded in the middle of a station with a trunk he could hardly
lift, a pocket full of wizard money, and a large owl.
Hagrid must have forgotten to tell him something you had to do, like
tapping the third brick on the left to get into Diagon Alley. He
wondered if he should get out his wand and start tapping the ticket
inspector's stand between platforms nine and ten. 'I will look at the ground when we come there,' said Aragorn. 
 Now they laid Boromir in the middle of the boat that was to bear him away. The 
grey hood and elven-cloak they folded and placed beneath his head. They combed 
his long dark hair and arrayed it upon his shoulders. The golden belt of Lorien 
gleamed about his waist. His helm they set beside him, and across his lap they laid 
the cloven horn and the hilts and shards of his sword; beneath his feet they put the 
swords of his enemies. Then fastening the prow to the stern of the other boat, they 
drew him out into the water. They rowed sadly along the shore, and turning into the 
swift-running channel they passed the green sward of Parth Galen. The steep sides 
of Tol Brandir were glowing: it was now mid-afternoon. As they went south the fume 
of Rauros rose and shimmered before them, a haze of gold. The rush and thunder of 
the falls shook the windless air. 
 Sorrowfully they cast loose the funeral boat: there Boromir lay, restful, peaceful, 
gliding upon the bosom of the flowing water. The stream took him while they held 
their own boat back with their paddles. He floated by them, and slowly his boat 
departed, waning to a dark spot against the golden light; and then suddenly it vanished. Rauros roared on unchanging. The River had taken Boromir son of 
Denethor, and he was not seen again in Minas Tirith, standing as he used to stand 
upon the White Tower in the morning. But in Gondor in after-days it long was said 
that the elven-boat rode the falls and the foaming pool, and bore him down through 
Osgiliath, and past the many mouths of Anduin, out into the Great Sea at night under 
the stars.  For a while the three companions remained silent, gazing after him. Then Aragorn 
spoke. 'They will look for him from the White Tower,' he said, 'but he will not return 
from mountain or from sea.' Then slowly he began to sing: 
Through Rohan over fen and field where the long grass grows 
The West Wind comes walking, and about the walls it goes. 
'What news from the West, O wandering wind, do you bring to me tonight? 
Have you seen Boromir the Tall by moon or by starlight?' 
'I saw him ride over seven streams, over waters wide and grey; 
I saw him walk in empty lands, until he passed away 
Into the shadows of the North. I saw him then no more. 
The North Wind may have heard the horn of the son of Denethor.' 
'O Boromir! From the high walls westward I looked afar, 
But you came not from the empty lands where no men are.' Let me think!' said Aragorn. 'And now may I make a right choice and change the 
evil fate of this unhappy day!' He stood silent for a moment. 'I will follow the Orcs,' he 
said at last. 'I would have guided Frodo to Mordor and gone with him to the end; but 
if I seek him now in the wilderness, I must abandon the captives to torment and 
death. My heart speaks clearly at last: the fate of the Bearer is in my hands no 
longer. The Company has played its part. Yet we that remain cannot forsake our 
companions while we have strength left. Come! We will go now. Leave all that can 
be spared behind! We will press on by day and dark!' 
 They drew up the last boat and carried it to the trees. They laid beneath it such of 
their goods as they did not need and could not carry away. Then they left Parth 
Galen. The afternoon was fading as they came back to the glade where Boromir had 
fallen. There they picked up the trail of the Orcs. It needed little skill to find. 
 'No other folk make such a trampling,' said Legolas. 'It seems their delight to slash 
and beat down growing things that are not even in their way.' 
 'But they go with a great speed for all that,' said Aragorn, 'and they do not tire. And 
later we may have to search for our path in hard bare lands.' 
 'Well, after them!' said Gimli. 'Dwarves too can go swiftly, and they do not tire “Lord Of The Rings - Part 2 - The Two Towers” By J R R Tolkien 7sooner than Orcs. But it will be a long chase: they have a long start.' 'Yes,' said Aragorn, 'we shall all need the endurance of Dwarves. But come! With 
hope or without hope we will follow the trail of our enemies. And woe to them, if we 
prove the swifter! We will make such a chase as shall be accounted a marvel among 
the Three Kindreds – Elves, Dwarves, and Men. Forth the Three Hunters!' 
 Like a deer he sprang away. Through the trees he sped. On and on he led them, 
tireless and swift, now that his mind was at last made up. The woods about the lake 
they left behind. Long slopes they climbed, dark, hard-edged against the sky already 
red with sunset. Dusk came. They passed away, grey shadows in a stony land.   Dusk deepened. Mist lay behind them among the trees below, and brooded on the 
pale margins of the Anduin, but the sky was clear. Stars came out. The waxing moon 
was riding in the West, and the shadows of the rocks were black. They had come to 
the feet of stony hills, and their pace was slower, for the trail was no longer easy to 
follow. Here the highlands of the Emyn Muil ran from North to South in two long 
tumbled ridges. The western side of each ridge was steep and difficult, but the 
eastward slopes were gentler, furrowed with many gullies and narrow ravines. All 
night the three companions scrambled in this bony land, climbing to the crest of the 
first and tallest ridge, and down again into the darkness of a deep winding valley on 
the other side. 
 There in the still cool hour before dawn they rested for a brief space. The moon 
had long gone down before them, the stars glittered above them; the first light of day 
had not yet come over the dark hills behind. For the moment Aragorn was at a loss: 
the orc-trail had descended into the valley, but there it had vanished. 
 'Which way would they turn, do you think?' said Legolas. 'Northward to take a 
straighter road to Isengard, or Fangorn, if that is their aim as you guess? Or 
southward to strike the Entwash?' 
 'They will not make for the river, whatever mark they aim at,' said Aragorn. 'And 
unless there is much amiss in Rohan and the power of Saruman is greatly increased; 
they will take the shortest way that they can find over the fields of the Rohirrim. Let 
us search northwards!' 
 The dale ran like a stony trough between the ridged hills, and a trickling stream 
flowed among the boulders at the bottom. A cliff frowned upon their right; to their left 
rose grey slopes, dim and shadowy in the late night. They went on for a mile or more 
northwards. Aragorn was searching, bent towards the ground, among the folds and 
gullies leading up into the western ridge. Legolas was some way ahead. Suddenly 
the Elf gave a cry and the others came running towards him. 
 'We have already overtaken some of those that we are hunting,' he said. 'Look!' He 
pointed, and they saw that what they had at first taken to be boulders lying at the foot 
of the slope were huddled bodies. Five dead Orcs lay there. They had been hewn 
with many cruel strokes, and two had been beheaded. The ground was wet with their 
dark blood. 
 'Here is another riddle!' said Gimli. 'But it needs the light of day and for that we 
cannot wait.' 
 'Yet however you read it, it seems not unhopeful,' said Legolas. 'Enemies of the 
Orcs are likely to be our friends. Do any folk dwell in these hills?' 
 'No,' said Aragorn. 'The Rohirrim seldom come here, and it is far from Minas Tirith. “Lord Of The Rings - Part 2 - The Two Towers” By J R R Tolkien 8
It might be that some company of Men were hunting here for reasons that we do not 
know. Yet I think not.' 
 'What do you think?' said Gimli. 
 'I think that the enemy brought his own enemy with him,' answered Aragorn. 'These 
are Northern Orcs from far away. Among the slain are none of the great Orcs with 
the strange badges. There was a quarrel, I guess: it is no uncommon thing with 
these foul folk. Maybe there was some dispute about the road.' 
 'Or about the captives,' said Gimli. 'Let us hope that they, too, did not meet their 
end here.' 
 Aragorn searched the ground in a wide circle, but no other traces of the fight could 
be found. They went on. Already the eastward sky was turning pale; the stars were 
fading, and a grey light was slowly growing. A little further north they came to a fold 
in which a tiny stream, falling and winding, had cut a stony path down into the valley. 
In it some bushes grew, and there were patches of grass upon its sides. 
 'At last!' said Aragorn. 'Here are the tracks that we seek! Up this water-channel: 
this is the way that the Orcs went after their debate.' 
 Swiftly now the pursuers turned and followed the new path. As if fresh from a 
night's rest they sprang from stone to stone. At last they reached the crest of the 
grey hill, and a sudden breeze blew in their hair and stirred their cloaks: the chill wind 
of dawn. 
 Turning back they saw across the River the far hills kindled. Day leaped into the 
sky. The red rim of the sun rose over the shoulders of the dark land. Before them in 
the West the world lay still, formless and grey; but even as they looked, the shadows 
of night melted, the colours of the waking earth returned: green flowed over the wide 
meads of Rohan; the white mists shimmered in the watervales; and far off to the left, 
thirty leagues or more, blue and purple stood the White Mountains, rising into peaks 
of jet, tipped with glimmering snows, flushed with the rose of morning. 
 'Gondor! Gondor!' cried Aragorn. 'Would that I looked on you again in happier hour! 
Not yet does my road lie southward to your bright streams. At the bottom they came with a strange suddenness on the grass of Rohan. It 
swelled like a green sea up to the very foot of the Emyn Muil. The falling stream 
vanished into a deep growth of cresses and water-plants, and they could hear it 
tinkling away in green tunnels, down long gentle slopes towards the fens of Entwash 
Vale far away. They seemed to have left winter clinging to the hills behind. Here the 
air was softer and warmer, and faintly scented, as if spring was already stirring and 
the sap was flowing again in herb and leaf. Legolas took a deep breath, like one that 
drinks a great draught after long thirst in barren places. 
 'Ah! the green smell!' he said. 'It is better than much sleep. Let us run!' 
 'Light feet may run swiftly here,' said Aragorn. 'More swiftly, maybe, than iron-shod 
Orcs. Now we have a chance to lessen their lead!' 
 They went in single file, running like hounds on a strong scent, and an eager light 
was in their eyes. Nearly due west the broad swath of the marching Orcs tramped its 
ugly slot; the sweet grass of Rohan had been bruised and blackened as they 
passed. Presently Aragorn gave a cry and turned aside. 'Stay!' he shouted. 'Do not 
follow me yet!' He ran quickly to the right, away from the main trail; for he had seen 
footprints that went that way, branching off from the others, the marks of small “Lord Of The Rings - Part 2 - The Two Towers” By J R R Tolkien 10
unshod feet. These, however, did not go far before they were crossed by orc-prints, 
also coming out from the main trail behind and in front, and then they curved sharply 
back again and were lost in the trampling. At the furthest point Aragorn stooped and 
picked up something from the grass; then he ran back. The sun climbed to the noon and then rode slowly down the sky. Light clouds 
came up out of the sea in the distant South and were blown away upon the breeze. 
The sun sank. Shadows rose behind and reached out long arms from the East. Still 
the hunters held on. One day now had passed since Boromir fell, and the Orcs were 
yet far ahead. No longer could any sight of them be seen in the level plains.      
