NEW BATTLES
And Echoes of Old Ones
Google: Open versus Closed
A few days after he unveiled the iPad in January 
2010, Jobs held a “town hall” meeting with employees 
at Apple’s campus. Instead of exulting about their 
transformative new product, however, he went into a 
rant against Google for producing the rival Android 
operating system. Jobs was furious that Google had 
decided to compete with Apple in the phone business. 
“We did not enter the search business,” he said. “They 
entered the phone business. Make no mistake. They 
want to kill the iPhone. We won’t let them.” A few 
minutes later, after the meeting moved on to another 
topic, Jobs returned to his tirade to attack Google’s 
famous values slogan. “I want to go back to that other 
question first and say one more thing. This ‘Don’t be 
evil’ mantra, it’s bullshit.”
Jobs felt personally betrayed. Google’s CEO Eric 
Schmidt had been on the Apple board during the 
development of the iPhone and iPad, and Google’s 
founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, had treated him 
as a mentor. He felt ripped off. Android’s touchscreen 
interface was adopting more and more of the features—
multi-touch, swiping, a grid of app icons—that Apple 
had created.
Jobs had tried to dissuade Google from 
developing Android. He had gone to Google’s 
headquarters near Palo Alto in 2008 and gotten into a 
shouting match with Page, Brin, and the head of the 
Android development team, Andy Rubin. (Because 
Schmidt was then on the Apple board, he recused 
himself from discussions involving the iPhone.) “I said 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 664
we would, if we had good relations, guarantee Google 
access to the iPhone and guarantee it one or two icons 
on the home screen,” he recalled. But he also 
threatened that if Google continued to develop Android 
and used any iPhone features, such as multi-touch, he 
would sue. At first Google avoided copying certain 
features, but in January 2010 HTC introduced an 
Android phone that boasted multi-touch and many other 
aspects of the iPhone’s look and feel. That was the 
context for Jobs’s pronouncement that Google’s “Don’t 
be evil” slogan was “bullshit.”
So Apple filed suit against HTC (and, by 
extension, Android), alleging infringement of twenty of 
its patents. Among them were patents covering various 
multi-touch gestures, swipe to open, double-tap to 
zoom, pinch and expand, and the sensors that 
determined how a device was being held. As he sat in 
his house in Palo Alto the week the lawsuit was filed, he 
became angrier than I had ever seen him:
Our lawsuit is saying, “Google, you fucking ripped 
off the iPhone, wholesale ripped us off.” Grand theft. I 
will spend my last dying breath if I need to, and I will 
spend every penny of Apple’s $40 billion in the bank, to 
right this wrong. I’m going to destroy Android, because 
it’s a stolen product. I’m willing to go to thermonuclear 
war on this. They are scared to death, because they 
know they are guilty. Outside of Search, Google’s 
products—Android, Google Docs—are shit.
  A few days after this rant, Jobs got a call from 
Schmidt, who had resigned from the Apple board the 
previous summer. He suggested they get together for 
coffee, and they met at a café in a Palo Alto shopping 
center. “We spent half the time talking about personal 
matters, then half the time on his perception that Google 
had stolen Apple’s user interface designs,” recalled 
Schmidt. When it came to the latter subject, Jobs did 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 665
most of the talking. Google had ripped him off, he said 
in colorful language. “We’ve got you red-handed,” he 
told Schmidt. “I’m not interested in settling. I don’t want 
your money. If you offer me $5 billion, I won’t want it. 
I’ve got plenty of money. I want you to stop using our 
ideas in Android, that’s all I want.” They resolved 
nothing.
Underlying the dispute was an even more 
fundamental issue, one that had unnerving historical 
resonance. Google presented Android as an “open” 
platform; its open-source code was freely available for 
multiple hardware makers to use on whatever phones 
or tablets they built. Jobs, of course, had a dogmatic 
belief that Apple should closely integrate its operating 
systems with its hardware. In the 1980s Apple had not 
licensed out its Macintosh operating system, and 
Microsoft eventually gained dominant market share by 
licensing its system to multiple hardware makers and, in 
Jobs’s mind, ripping off Apple’s interface.
The comparison between what Microsoft wrought 
in the 1980s and what Google was trying to do in 2010 
was not exact, but it was close enough to be unsettling
—and infuriating. It exemplified the great debate of the 
digital age: closed versus open, or as Jobs framed it, 
integrated versus fragmented. Was it better, as Apple 
believed and as Jobs’s own controlling perfectionism 
almost compelled, to tie the hardware and software and 
content handling into one tidy system that assured a 
simple user experience? Or was it better to give users 
and manufacturers more choice and free up avenues 
for more innovation, by creating software systems that 
could be modified and used on different devices? 
“Steve has a particular way that he wants to run Apple, 
and it’s the same as it was twenty years ago, which is 
that Apple is a brilliant innovator of closed systems,” 
Schmidt later told me. “They don’t want people to be on 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 666
their platform without permission. The benefits of a 
closed platform is control. But Google has a specific 
belief that open is the better approach, because it leads 
to more options and competition and consumer choice.”
So what did Bill Gates think as he watched Jobs, 
with his closed strategy, go into battle against Google, 
as he had done against Microsoft twenty-five years 
earlier? “There are some benefits to being more closed, 
in terms of how much you control the experience, and 
certainly at times he’s had the benefit of that,” Gates told 
me. But refusing to license the Apple iOS, he added, 
gave competitors like Android the chance to gain 
greater volume. In addition, he argued, competition 
among a variety of devices and manufacturers leads to 
greater consumer choice and more innovation. “These 
companies are not all building pyramids next to Central 
Park,” he said, poking fun at Apple’s Fifth Avenue store, 
“but they are coming up with innovations based on 
competing for consumers.” Most of the improvements in 
PCs, Gates pointed out, came because consumers had 
a lot of choices, and that would someday be the case in 
the world of mobile devices. “Eventually, I think, open 
will succeed, but that’s where I come from. In the long 
run, the coherence thing, you can’t stay with that.”
Jobs believed in “the coherence thing.” His faith in 
a controlled and closed environment remained 
unwavering, even as Android gained market share. 
“Google says we exert more control than they do, that 
we are closed and they are open,” he railed when I told 
him what Schmidt had said. “Well, look at the results—
Android’s a mess. It has different screen sizes and 
versions, over a hundred permutations.” Even if 
Google’s approach might eventually win in the 
marketplace, Jobs found it repellent. “I like being 
responsible for the whole user experience. We do it not 
to make money. We do it because we want to make 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 667
great products, not crap like Android.”
Flash, the App Store, and Control
Jobs’s insistence on end-to-end control was 
manifested in other battles as well. At the town hall 
meeting where he attacked Google, he also assailed 
Adobe’s multimedia platform for websites, Flash, as a 
“buggy” battery hog made by “lazy” people. The iPod 
and iPhone, he said, would never run Flash. “Flash is a 
spaghetti-ball piece of technology that has lousy 
performance and really bad security problems,” he said 
to me later that week.
He even banned apps that made use of a compiler 
created by Adobe that translated Flash code so that it 
would be compatible with Apple’s iOS. Jobs disdained 
the use of compilers that allowed developers to write 
their products once and have them ported to multiple 
operating systems. “Allowing Flash to be ported across 
platforms means things get dumbed down to the lowest 
common denominator,” he said. “We spend lots of effort 
to make our platform better, and the developer doesn’t 
get any benefit if Adobe only works with functions that 
every platform has. So we said that we want developers 
to take advantage of our better features, so that their 
apps work better on our platform than they work on 
anybody else’s.” On that he was right. Losing the ability 
to differentiate Apple’s platforms—allowing them to 
become commoditized like HP and Dell machines—
would have meant death for the company.
There was, in addition, a more personal reason. 
Apple had invested in Adobe in 1985, and together the 
two companies had launched the desktop publishing 
revolution. “I helped put Adobe on the map,” Jobs 
claimed. In 1999, after he returned to Apple, he had 
asked Adobe to start making its video editing software 
and other products for the iMac and its new operating 
system, but Adobe refused. It focused on making its 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 668
products for Windows. Soon after, its founder, John 
Warnock, retired. “The soul of Adobe disappeared 
when Warnock left,” Jobs said. “He was the inventor, 
the person I related to. It’s been a bunch of suits since 
then, and the company has turned out crap.”
When Adobe evangelists and various Flash 
supporters in the blogosphere attacked Jobs for being 
too controlling, he decided to write and post an open 
letter. Bill Campbell, his friend and board member, 
came by his house to go over it. “Does it sound like I’m 
just trying to stick it to Adobe?” he asked Campbell. “No, 
it’s facts, just put it out there,” the coach said. Most of the 
letter focused on the technical drawbacks of Flash. But 
despite Campbell’s coaching, Jobs couldn’t resist 
venting at the end about the problematic history 
between the two companies. “Adobe was the last major 
third party developer to fully adopt Mac OS X,” he noted.
Apple ended up lifting some of its restrictions on 
cross-platform compilers later in the year, and Adobe 
was able to come out with a Flash authoring tool that 
took advantage of the key features of Apple’s iOS. It 
was a bitter war, but one in which Jobs had the better 
argument. In the end it pushed Adobe and other 
developers of compilers to make better use of the 
iPhone and iPad interface and its special features.
Jobs had a tougher time navigating the 
controversies over Apple’s desire to keep tight control 
over which apps could be downloaded onto the iPhone 
and iPad. Guarding against apps that contained viruses 
or violated the user’s privacy made sense; preventing 
apps that took users to other websites to buy 
subscriptions, rather than doing it through the iTunes 
Store, at least had a business rationale. But Jobs and 
his team went further: They decided to ban any app that 
defamed people, might be politically explosive, or was 
deemed by Apple’s censors to be pornographic.
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 669
The problem of playing nanny became apparent 
when Apple rejected an app featuring the animated 
political cartoons of Mark Fiore, on the rationale that his 
attacks on the Bush administration’s policy on torture 
violated the restriction against defamation. Its decision 
became public, and was subjected to ridicule, when 
Fiore won the 2010 Pulitzer Prize for editorial 
cartooning in April. Apple had to reverse itself, and Jobs 
made a public apology. “We’re guilty of making 
mistakes,” he said. “We’re doing the best we can, we’re 
learning as fast as we can—but we thought this rule 
made sense.”
 It was more than a mistake. It raised the specter of 
Apple’s controlling what apps we got to see and read, 
at least if we wanted to use an iPad or iPhone. Jobs 
seemed in danger of becoming the Orwellian Big 
Brother he had gleefully destroyed in Apple’s “1984” 
Macintosh ad. He took the issue seriously. One day he 
called the New York Timescolumnist Tom Friedman to 
discuss how to draw lines without looking like a censor. 
He asked Friedman to head an advisory group to help 
come up with guidelines, but the columnist’s publisher 
said it would be a conflict of interest, and no such 
committee was formed.
The pornography ban also caused problems. “We 
believe we have a moral responsibility to keep porn off 
the iPhone,” Jobs declared in an email to a customer. 
“Folks who want porn can buy an Android.”
This prompted an email exchange with Ryan Tate, 
the editor of the tech gossip site Valleywag. Sipping a 
stinger cocktail one evening, Tate shot off an email to 
Jobs decrying Apple’s heavy-handed control over 
which apps passed muster. “If Dylan was 20 today, how 
would he feel about your company?” Tate asked. 
“Would he think the iPad had the faintest thing to do 
with ‘revolution’? Revolutions are about freedom.”
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 670
To Tate’s surprise, Jobs responded a few hours 
later, after midnight. “Yep,” he said, “freedom from 
programs that steal your private data. Freedom from 
programs that trash your battery. Freedom from porn. 
Yep, freedom. The times they are a changin’, and some 
traditional PC folks feel like their world is slipping away. 
It is.”
In his reply, Tate offered some thoughts on Flash 
and other topics, then returned to the censorship issue. 
“And you know what? I don’t want ‘freedom from porn.’ 
Porn is just fine! And I think my wife would agree.”
“You might care more about porn when you have 
kids,” replied Jobs. “It’s not about freedom, it’s about 
Apple trying to do the right thing for its users.” At the end 
he added a zinger: “By the way, what have you done 
that’s so great? Do you create anything, or just criticize 
others’ work and belittle their motivations?”
Tate admitted to being impressed. “Rare is the 
CEO who will spar one-on-one with customers and 
bloggers like this,” he wrote. “Jobs deserves big credit 
for breaking the mold of the typical American executive, 
and not just because his company makes such hugely 
superior products: Jobs not only built and then rebuilt 
his company around some very strong opinions about 
digital life, but he’s willing to defend them in public. 
Vigorously. Bluntly. At two in the morning on a 
weekend.” Many in the blogosphere agreed, and they 
sent Jobs emails praising his feistiness. Jobs was 
proud as well; he forwarded his exchange with Tate 
and some of the kudos to me.
Still, there was something unnerving about 
Apple’s decreeing that those who bought their products 
shouldn’t look at controversial political cartoons or, for 
that matter, porn. The humor site eSarcasm.com 
launched a “Yes, Steve, I want porn” web campaign. 
“We are dirty, sex-obsessed miscreants who need 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 671
access to smut 24 hours a day,” the site declared. 
“Either that, or we just enjoy the idea of an uncensored, 
open society where a techno-dictator doesn’t decide 
what we can and cannot see.”
At the time Jobs and Apple were engaged in a 
battle with Valleywag’s affiliated website, Gizmodo, 
which had gotten hold of a test version of the 
unreleased iPhone 4 that a hapless Apple engineer 
had left in a bar. When the police, responding to 
Apple’s complaint, raided the house of the reporter, it 
raised the question of whether control freakiness had 
combined with arrogance.
Jon Stewart was a friend of Jobs and an Apple fan. 
Jobs had visited him privately in February when he took 
his trip to New York to meet with media executives. But 
that didn’t stop Stewart from going after him on The 
Daily Show.“It wasn’t supposed to be this way! 
Microsoft was supposed to be the evil one!” Stewart 
said, only half-jokingly. Behind him, the word 
“appholes” appeared on the screen. “You guys were 
the rebels, man, the underdogs. But now, are you 
becoming The Man? Remember back in 1984, you had 
those awesome ads about overthrowing Big Brother? 
Look in the mirror, man!”
By late spring the issue was being discussed 
among board members. “There is an arrogance,” Art 
Levinson told me over lunch just after he had raised it at 
a meeting. “It ties into Steve’s personality. He can react 
viscerally and lay out his convictions in a forceful 
manner.” Such arrogance was fine when Apple was the 
feisty underdog. But now Apple was dominant in the 
mobile market. “We need to make the transition to being 
a big company and dealing with the hubris issue,” said 
Levinson. Al Gore also talked about the problem at 
board meetings. “The context for Apple is changing 
dramatically,” he recounted. “It’s not hammer-thrower 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 672
against Big Brother. Now Apple’s big, and people see it 
as arrogant.” Jobs became defensive when the topic 
was raised. “He’s still adjusting to it,” said Gore. “He’s 
better at being the underdog than being a humble 
giant.”
Jobs had little patience for such talk. The reason 
Apple was being criticized, he told me then, was that 
“companies like Google and Adobe are lying about us 
and trying to tear us down.” What did he think of the 
suggestion that Apple sometimes acted arrogantly? “I’m 
not worried about that,” he said, “because we’re not 
arrogant.”
Antennagate: Design versus Engineering
In many consumer product companies, there’s 
tension between the designers, who want to make a 
product look beautiful, and the engineers, who need to 
make sure it fulfills its functional requirements. At Apple, 
where Jobs pushed both design and engineering to the 
edge, that tension was even greater.
When he and design director Jony Ive became 
creative coconspirators back in 1997, they tended to 
view the qualms expressed by engineers as evidence 
of a can’t-do attitude that needed to be overcome. Their 
faith that awesome design could force superhuman 
feats of engineering was reinforced by the success of 
the iMac and iPod. When engineers said something 
couldn’t be done, Ive and Jobs pushed them to try, and 
usually they succeeded. There were occasional small 
problems. The iPod Nano, for example, was prone to 
getting scratched because Ive believed that a clear 
coating would lessen the purity of his design. But that 
was not a crisis.
When it came to designing the iPhone, Ive’s 
design desires bumped into a fundamental law of 
physics that could not be changed even by a reality 
distortion field. Metal is not a great material to put near 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 673
an antenna. As Michael Faraday showed, 
electromagnetic waves flow around the surface of 
metal, not through it. So a metal enclosure around a 
phone can create what is known as a Faraday cage, 
diminishing the signals that get in or out. The original 
iPhone started with a plastic band at the bottom, but Ive 
thought that would wreck the design integrity and asked 
that there be an aluminum rim all around. After that 
ended up working out, Ive designed the iPhone 4 with a 
steel rim. The steel would be the structural support, look 
really sleek, and serve as part of the phone’s antenna.
There were significant challenges. In order to 
serve as an antenna, the steel rim had to have a tiny 
gap. But if a person covered that gap with a finger or 
sweaty palm, there could be some signal loss. The 
engineers suggested a clear coating over the metal to 
help prevent this, but again Ive felt that this would 
detract from the brushed-metal look. The issue was 
presented to Jobs at various meetings, but he thought 
the engineers were crying wolf. You can make this 
work, he said. And so they did.
And it worked, almost perfectly. But not totally 
perfectly. When the iPhone 4 was released in June 
2010, it looked awesome, but a problem soon became 
evident: If you held the phone a certain way, especially 
using your left hand so your palm covered the tiny gap, 
you could lose your connection. It occurred with 
perhaps one in a hundred calls. Because Jobs insisted 
on keeping his unreleased products secret (even the 
phone that Gizmodo scored in a bar had a fake case 
around it), the iPhone 4 did not go through the live 
testing that most electronic devices get. So the flaw was 
not caught before the massive rush to buy it began. 
“The question is whether the twin policies of putting 
design in front of engineering and having a policy of 
supersecrecy surrounding unreleased products helped 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 674
Apple,” Tony Fadell said later. “On the whole, yes, but 
unchecked power is a bad thing, and that’s what 
happened.”
Had it not been the Apple iPhone 4, a product that 
had everyone transfixed, the issue of a few extra 
dropped calls would not have made news. But it 
became known as “Antennagate,” and it boiled to a 
head in early July, when Consumer Reportsdid some 
rigorous tests and said that it could not recommend the 
iPhone 4 because of the antenna problem.
Jobs was in Kona Village, Hawaii, with his family 
when the issue arose. At first he was defensive. Art 
Levinson was in constant contact by phone, and Jobs 
insisted that the problem stemmed from Google and 
Motorola making mischief. “They want to shoot Apple 
down,” he said.
Levinson urged a little humility. “Let’s try to figure 
out if there’s something wrong,” he said. When he again 
mentioned the perception that Apple was arrogant, 
Jobs didn’t like it. It went against his black-white, rightwrong way of viewing the world. Apple was a company 
of principle, he felt. If others failed to see that, it was 
their fault, not a reason for Apple to play humble.
Jobs’s second reaction was to be hurt. He took the 
criticism personally and became emotionally 
anguished. “At his core, he doesn’t do things that he 
thinks are blatantly wrong, like some pure pragmatists 
in our business,” Levinson said. “So if he feels he’s 
right, he will just charge ahead rather than question 
himself.” Levinson urged him not to get depressed. But 
Jobs did. “Fuck this, it’s not worth it,” he told Levinson. 
Finally Tim Cook was able to shake him out of his 
lethargy. He quoted someone as saying that Apple was 
becoming the new Microsoft, complacent and arrogant. 
The next day Jobs changed his attitude. “Let’s get to the 
bottom of this,” he said.
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 675
When the data about dropped calls were 
assembled from AT&T, Jobs realized there was a 
problem, even if it was more minor than people were 
making it seem. So he flew back from Hawaii. But 
before he left, he made some phone calls. It was time to 
gather a couple of trusted old hands, wise men who 
had been with him during the original Macintosh days 
thirty years earlier.
His first call was to Regis McKenna, the public 
relations guru. “I’m coming back from Hawaii to deal 
with this antenna thing, and I need to bounce some stuff 
off of you,” Jobs told him. They agreed to meet at the 
Cupertino boardroom at 1:30 the next afternoon. The 
second call was to the adman Lee Clow. He had tried to 
retire from the Apple account, but Jobs liked having him 
around. His colleague James Vincent was summoned 
as well.
Jobs also decided to bring his son Reed, then a 
high school senior, back with him from Hawaii. “I’m 
going to be in meetings 24/7 for probably two days and 
I want you to be in every single one because you’ll 
learn more in those two days than you would in two 
years at business school,” he told him. “You’re going to 
be in the room with the best people in the world making 
really tough decisions and get to see how the sausage 
is made.” Jobs got a little misty-eyed when he recalled 
the experience. “I would go through that all again just 
for that opportunity to have him see me at work,” he 
said. “He got to see what his dad does.”
They were joined by Katie Cotton, the steady 
public relations chief at Apple, and seven other top 
executives. The meeting lasted all afternoon. “It was 
one of the greatest meetings of my life,” Jobs later said. 
He began by laying out all the data they had gathered. 
“Here are the facts. So what should we do about it?”
McKenna was the most calm and straightforward. 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 676
“Just lay out the truth, the data,” he said. “Don’t appear 
arrogant, but appear firm and confident.” Others, 
including Vincent, pushed Jobs to be more apologetic, 
but McKenna said no. “Don’t go into the press 
conference with your tail between your legs,” he 
advised. “You should just say: ‘Phones aren’t perfect, 
and we’re not perfect. We’re human and doing the best 
we can, and here’s the data.’” That became the 
strategy. When the topic turned to the perception of 
arrogance, McKenna urged him not to worry too much. 
“I don’t think it would work to try to make Steve look 
humble,” McKenna explained later. “As Steve says 
about himself, ‘What you see is what you get.’”
At the press event that Friday, held in Apple’s 
auditorium, Jobs followed McKenna’s advice. He did 
not grovel or apologize, yet he was able to defuse the 
problem by showing that Apple understood it and would 
try to make it right. Then he changed the framework of 
the discussion, saying that all cell phones had some 
problems. Later he told me that he had sounded a bit 
“too annoyed” at the event, but in fact he was able to 
strike a tone that was unemotional and straightforward. 
He captured it in four short, declarative sentences: 
“We’re not perfect. Phones are not perfect. We all know 
that. But we want to make our users happy.”
If anyone was unhappy, he said, they could return 
the phone (the return rate turned out to be 1.7%, less 
than a third of the return rate for the iPhone 3GS or most 
other phones) or get a free bumper case from Apple. He 
went on to report data showing that other mobile 
phones had similar problems. That was not totally true. 
Apple’s antenna design made it slightly worse than 
most other phones, including earlier versions of the 
iPhone. But it was true that the media frenzy over the 
iPhone 4’s dropped calls was overblown. “This is blown 
so out of proportion that it’s incredible,” he said. Instead 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 677
of being appalled that he didn’t grovel or order a recall, 
most customers realized that he was right.
The wait list for the phone, which was already sold 
out, went from two weeks to three. It remained the 
company’s fastest-selling product ever. The media 
debate shifted to the issue of whether Jobs was right to 
assert that other smartphones had the same antenna 
problems. Even if the answer was no, that was a better 
story to face than one about whether the iPhone 4 was 
a defective dud.
Some media observers were incredulous. “In a 
bravura demonstration of stonewalling, righteousness, 
and hurt sincerity, Steve Jobs successfully took to the 
stage the other day to deny the problem, dismiss the 
criticism, and spread the blame among other 
smartphone makers,” Michael Wolff of newser.com 
wrote. “This is a level of modern marketing, corporate 
spin, and crisis management about which you can only 
ask with stupefied incredulity and awe: How do they get 
away with it? Or, more accurately, how does he get 
away with it?” Wolff attributed it to Jobs’s mesmerizing 
effect as “the last charismatic individual.” Other CEOs 
would be offering abject apologies and swallowing 
massive recalls, but Jobs didn’t have to. “The grim, 
skeletal appearance, the absolutism, the ecclesiastical 
bearing, the sense of his relationship with the sacred, 
really works, and, in this instance, allows him the 
privilege of magisterially deciding what is meaningful 
and what is trivial.”
 Scott Adams, the creator of the cartoon strip 
Dilbert, was also incredulous, but far more admiring. He 
wrote a blog entry a few days later (which Jobs proudly 
emailed around) that marveled at how Jobs’s “high 
ground maneuver” was destined to be studied as a new 
public relations standard. “Apple’s response to the 
iPhone 4 problem didn’t follow the public relations 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 678
playbook, because Jobs decided to rewrite the 
playbook,” Adams wrote. “If you want to know what 
genius looks like, study Jobs’ words.” By proclaiming up 
front that phones are not perfect, Jobs changed the 
context of the argument with an indisputable assertion. 
“If Jobs had not changed the context from the iPhone 4 
to all smartphones in general, I could make you a 
hilarious comic strip about a product so poorly made 
that it won’t work if it comes in contact with a human 
hand. But as soon as the context is changed to ‘all 
smartphones have problems,’ the humor opportunity is 
gone. Nothing kills humor like a general and boring 
truth.”
Here Comes the Sun
There were a few things that needed to be 
resolved for the career of Steve Jobs to be complete. 
Among them was an end to the Thirty Years’ War with 
the band he loved, the Beatles. In 2007 Apple had 
settled its trademark battle with Apple Corps, the 
holding company of the Beatles, which had first sued 
the fledgling computer company over use of the name 
in 1978. But that still did not get the Beatles into the 
iTunes Store. The band was the last major holdout, 
primarily because it had not resolved with EMI music, 
which owned most of its songs, how to handle the 
digital rights.
By the summer of 2010 the Beatles and EMI had 
sorted things out, and a four-person summit was held in 
the boardroom in Cupertino. Jobs and his vice 
president for the iTunes Store, Eddy Cue, played host to 
Jeff Jones, who managed the Beatles’ interests, and 
Roger Faxon, the chief of EMI music. Now that the 
Beatles were ready to go digital, what could Apple offer 
to make that milestone special? Jobs had been 
anticipating this day for a long time. In fact he and his 
advertising team, Lee Clow and James Vincent, had 
Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson 679
mocked up some ads and commercials three years 
earlier when strategizing on how to lure the Beatles on 
board.
“Steve and I thought about all the things that we 
could possibly do,” Cue recalled. That included taking 
over the front page of the iTunes Store, buying 
billboards featuring the best photographs of the band, 
and running a series of television ads in classic Apple 
style. The topper was offering a $149 box set that 
included all thirteen Beatles studio albums, the twovolume “Past Masters” collection, and a nostalgiainducing video of the 1964 Washington Coliseum 
concert.
Once they reached an agreement in principle, 
Jobs personally helped choose the photographs for the 
ads. Each commercial ended with a still black-andwhite shot of Paul McCartney and John Lennon, young 
and smiling, in a recording studio looking down at a 
piece of music. It evoked the old photographs of Jobs 
and Wozniak looking at an Apple circuit board. “Getting 
the Beatles on iTunes was the culmination of why we 
got into the music business,” said Cue.