      I have been blessed in my time as a researcher at UAF to have the experience of working with people of Minto, AK. I am happy to be able to call Chief Patrick Smith my friend, as he contributed at least as much to this research as he did to my own personal growth as both an academic and spiritual being. I hope that Pat and his community will find in these pages something insightful and useful as they continue to pursue their lives in the singularity that is life in Interior Alaska. To them I am committed to continuing this work, and to bringing the power of the researcher and the research institution into their hands for their direction, for only they know the meaningful and important questions to ask, and only they know when those questions have been answered. 
      I must also give thanks to my moms, Marjie and Esther, who supported me in this wild idea to run away to Alaska, to my beloved fiancée Alysa who was waiting for me when I got here, and to my friend and mentor Craig Gerlach for being an honest cowboy in this last, frozen frontier. Thanks also to my other committee members, Terry Chapin and Maribeth Murray, and to Michele Hebert of the UAF Coop Extention. 
This work was supported by a graduate student fellowship from the USDA’s Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education program, Western Region office (SARE, GW07-013), and by the Resilience and Adaptation Program (RAP) at UAF, an NSF-IGERT (DEB-0114423).
      Our lives are embedded within food. In ecological terms, food plays a structuring role in every living organism’s niche and, when abundance of or competition for that food changes, behavioral changes must follow. The eater is also inevitably the eaten, a pattern which repeats ad infinitum through a “web woven endlessly” (Quinn 2005), and even minute changes or disturbances at one place in this web can initiate cascades that result in significant short- and long-term biological outcomes, from character displacement to speciation, extinction, even complete ecological regime change (Chapin III and others 2002). We too are intimately connected to this web, the ConAgras and Monsantos of the world notwithstanding. Indeed humans might very well be the species most connected to its food, for in addition to our biophysical needs we relate to food emotionally, socially and culturally: food can be an object of ritual, trade, tradition, solidarity, love and eroticism. So it is no surprise that when the foods in our lives change, aspects of our lives change with them. 
      That food systems change is an ecological as well as a social certainty, and for humans many of these changes can be completely under our direction. Indeed the constant alteration, adaptation and transformation of dietary patterns, e.g. the integration of new types of food, food processing and preparation methods, is an important aspect of human adaptation (Nabhan 2004; Reed 1995; Sahlins 1972). Like every creature we have to wrangel with the realities of food scarcity and compete for our food to the best of our ability, but we develop our competitive advantage beyond the mechanisms of our 2 biological adaptation to control when, how and how much we eat. We enact traditions that transmit and preserve our food knowledge, we create technologies for taking control over the consistency and safety of our food harvest and supply, and we observe social rules and institutions that govern the distribution of those foods to consumers (Nabhan 1990; 1998; Quinn 1991). These are our foodways, and embedded within them is a dynamic relationship with nature, society and economics, one where the preferences/choices we enact in order to fulfill our biophysical needs (like shelter and nutrition) and psychological/cultural needs (like ego, sense of place and belonging, appetite) transforms both us and our environment through the construction of meaning and assignment of cultural significance (Bennett 1976; Martin 2004). 
      Given that food and culture are so intertwined, it is reasonable to expect that when new forces come to bear on our our ability to manage and respond to changes to our food systems, outcomes can follow that inflict upon us and our communities a significant amount of physical and psychological stress. When the act of eating is no longer a matter of individual choice, local production, or adaptation, but restricted by outside forces such as changes in weather and ecosystems, market economics and/or institutional restrictions or prohibitions, we are left vulnerable (Etkin 1994; Gerlach and others in press; Glantz 2006; Grivetti and Ogle 2000). There remains, however, a deficit of knowledge regarding the tangible linkages between these changes to local food systems and the contemporary vulnerabilities and syndromes that challenge the cultural and physical well-being and integrity of people and their communities world-wide. Knowing to what extent these linkages are real or perceived is essential if anyone is to successfully pursue and 3 contribute to the discovery of the causes of and solutions to epidemics such as malnutrition, obesity, diabetes, cancer, depression and alcoholism and drug abuse. 
      Indeed as we continue to become aware of the caveats and negative implications of the global industrial food system and its highly-processed foods, e.g. obeisity, diabetes and the slow, sorrowful demise of rural America, we also contribute to our understanding of the possibilities and benefits inherent in local food systems. Strong local food systems make for strong and healthy communities and ecosystems; the work presented here was done foremost to contribute, in this respect, to the importance of indigenous slow food movements everywhere. From the experimental village garden in Noatak or Calypso Farm and Ecology center in Ester, Alaska to Broadturn Farm in Scarborough, ME, these are grass-roots, community-based movements where people are taking control over the foods they eat one meal at a time, in a manner that is most meaningful and appropriate to themselves, their families and their community. They range in scale from the largest community supported agriculture programs (CSA), to the smallest group of families that have chosen to share in weekly potlucks in hopes of rebuilding a community of social, economic and spiritual support around them. 
      The Athabascan peoples of interior Alaska are similarly engaged in such movements, to resist the further incorporation of the global food system into their communities, and to find new, innovative ways to build healthy and resilient local food systems. It is clear from ethnographic and scientific sources that in the past 100 years the diets of Alaska Native peoples have changed dramatically, and it is equally as clear that these communities are grappling with many of the syndromes listed above (AMAP 2003; 4 ATSDR 2001; Graves 2003; Kuhnlein and others 2004; Nobmann and others 1992; Reed 1995; Schneider 1976). While the majority of foods consumed by Alaska Natives were once country foods (i.e. wild fish, game, waterfowl and upland birds, plants), and the harvest of these resources continues to represent the best nutritional strategy, it is no longer the most consistent or secure food source because of changing social, ecological, economic and political conditions that are very much outside of local control. This research investigates both the past and present of food systems change and innovation in these communities, with the hopes of contributing through collaboration and through social and ecological research to the capacity of local communities to strengthen their self-reliance. Too, it is hoped that the rural Alaskan examples presented here might offer some lessons regarding the dynamics of these linkages between food systems change and physical, psychological and cultural well-being, lessons that are relevant to local communities world wide. 
Chapter Overview 
      Each of the three chapters in this thesis investigates the dimensions of resiliency and vulnerability as they manifest in the past and present of rural Alaskan food systems. The first, “Outpost Gardening in Interior Alaska,” examines the resiliency of Athabascan foodways from a historical perspective. Alongside hunting and gathering, gardens have for over a century played an important role within the customary and traditional foodways of Native Alaskans. Nevertheless, a question of ‘nativeness’ pervades the dialogue regarding contemporary village gardening initiatives in rural Alaska, both from 5 
      within and without native communities. The chapter makes use of some recently identified archives to explore the history of gardening practices in the Yukon Flats region of Alaska, its legitimacy in respect to “tradition” as a state-legislative and regulatory context, and the origin of (mis)conceptions regarding its role in household and community economies. By scrutinizing a roughly 20-year history of garden crop records and synthesizing them with interviews and existing ethnographic sources, this chapter argues that gardening has and continues to fulfill a role in Athabascan foodways that is perhaps best characterized as ‘outpost gardening’ (after Francis 1967), where agriculture was not valued as a primary or ideal means of subsistence, but as one component of a flexible and diversified cultural system. 
      The second chapter introduces a new framework for extending the ecosysyem services concept poplarized by the Millenium Ecosystem Assessment (2004). Called the ‘Services-Oriented Architecture’ (SOA) it is a meta-data model popular in the information technology (IT) industry, through which businesses manage information about the services they offer to their customers, how and where these services are provided, and the policies that govern their use. Chapter 2 presents a modified version of the SOA as a simple, scalable data framework for describing ecosystem services. In this chapter I lay out the prototype of the SOA as a way to further the usefulness of the ecosystem services framework and demonstrate it using an example from rural Alaska. This chapter offers a set of common vocabulary and definitions that social science and biological science researchers should both be able to leverage in order to capture and organize all relevant information about ecosystem services. It establishes a standard for 6 deconstructing and analyzing ecosystem services, viewing how they have changed or might change over time, and for evaluating and modeling service substitutability. 
      The third and final chapter explores the contemporary foodways of one particular Alaska Native community, that of Minto. I discuss the harvest of traditional foods, but expand beyond subsistence to discuss the whole rural Alaskan food system and Minto’s place within it, and then scale back down to the community to look at some of the ways in which food, nutrition, and community health are linked through ecology, economic and political inistitutions to produce outcomes where food (calories) may be secure but nutrition is certainly not. Minto remains an excellent example of the “commensal” community, where people live and eat together in a manner that is respectful of each other, of the land and the environment, and built upon a moral economy where food is considered more than a commodity to be exchanged through a set of impersonal market relationships and held as central to community well being. Yet Minto’s food system is fragmenting, and its people, like so many Alaska Native communities, are faced with contemporary syndromes such as diabetes, obesity, heart disease, depression and alcoholism. To get at the dynamics and outcomes of these circumstances I use Kloppenburg et al’s (1996) foodshed metaphor to show how Minto is “coming out” of their foodshed: a process where a variety of exogenous circumstances are causing country foods (those harvested from the land, often called subsistence foods) to be increasingly supplanted by store-bought foods. The metaphor allows us to explore the details of how this transition provides these communities an additional measure of food security but also 7 increases their vulnerability to external economies and polities, and undermines their overall measure of self-reliance. 
REFERENCES 
AMAP. 2003. Amap Assessment 2002: Human Health in the Arctic. Oslo, Norway: Arctic Monitoring and Assesment Programme (AMAP). 
ATSDR. 2001. Alaska Traditional Diet Project. [online] URL: http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/alaska/. 
Bennett JW. 1976. The Ecological Transition: Cultural Anthropology and Human Adaptation. New York: Pergamon. 
Chapin III FS, Matson PA, Mooney HA. 2002. Principles of Terrestrial Ecosystem Ecology. New York: Springer. 
Etkin NL, editor. 1994. Eating on the Wild Side. Tuscon: The University of Arizona Press. 
Francis KE. 1967. Outpost Agriculture: The Case of Alaska. Geographical Review LVII(4):496-505. 
Gerlach SC, Turner AM, Henry L, Loring P, Fleener C. in press. Regional Foods, Food Systems, Security and Risk in Rural Alaska. In: Duffy LK, Erickson, editors. Circumpolar Environmental Science: Current Issues in Resources, Health and Policy. Fairbanks: University of Alaska Press. 
Glantz MH. 2006. Prototype Training Workshop for Educators on the Effects of Climate Change on Seasonality and Environmental Hazards. Final Report Submitted to Apn, 2004-Cb07nsy-Glantz.: Asia-Pacific Network for Global Change Research. 
Graves K. 2003. Resilience and Adaptation among Alaska Native Men. Fairbanks: University of Alaska Anchorage. 
Grivetti LE, Ogle BM. 2000. The Value of Traditional Foods in Meeting Macro- and Micronutrient Needs: The Wild Plant Connection. Nutrition Research Reviews 13:1-16. 
Kloppenburg J, Hendrickson J, Stevenson GW. 1996. Coming into the Foodshed. Agriculture and Human Values 13(3):33-42. 8 Kuhnlein HV, Receveur O, Soueida R, Egeland GM. 2004. Arctic Indigenous Peoples Experience the Nutrition Transition with Changing Dietary Patterns and Obesity. Journal of Nutrition 134(6):1447-1453. 
Martin GJ. 2004. Ethnbotany: A Methods Manual. London, UK: Earthscan Publications Limited. 
Nabhan GP. 1990. Gathering the Desert. Tuscon: University of Arizona Press. 
1998. Cultures of Habitat: On Nature, Culture and Story. New York: Counterpoint Press. 
2004. Why Some Like It Hot: Food, Genes and Cultural Diversity. Washington, D.C.: Island Press. 
Nobmann E, Byers T, Lanier AP, Hankin JH, Jackson MY. 1992. The Diet of Alaska Native Adults: 1987-1988. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 55(5):1024-1032. 
Quinn D. 1991. Ishmael. New York: Bantam. 
2005. Tales of Adam. Hanover, NH: Steerforth Press. 
Reed LJ. 1995. Diet and Subsistence in Transition: Traditional and Western Pratices in an Alaskan Athapaskan Village: University of Oregon. 265 p. 
Sahlins M. 1972. Stone Age Economics. Chicago, IL: Aldine Atherton Inc. 
Schneider WS. 1976. Beaver, Alaska: The Story of a Multi-Ethnic Community. Ann Arbor: Bryn Mawr College. 9 
CHAPTER 1 
Outpost Gardening in Interior Alaska: Historical Dimensions of Food System Innovation and the Alaska Native Gardens of the 1930s-70s.1 
1.1 ABSTRACT 
      “Subsistence activities,” i.e. the harvests of wild fish and game as practiced by Alaska Natives, are regulated in Alaska by a legal framework that defines what is and is not “customary and traditional.” For over a century, various forms of crop cultivation, e.g. family, community, and school gardens have played a role within the foodways of many Alaska Native groups. Nevertheless, these activities are not widely considered to be either customary or traditional, an oversight with consequences for communities that are experimenting with new community garden initiatives, as well as for any Native community who pursues innovative responses to the new challenges brought to bear by forces such as global climate change. This paper makes use of some recently identified archival and documentary sources to illuminate the underrepresented history of cropping practices by Native communities in the Tanana and Yukon Flats regions of Alaska. Indeed as it is presented here, crop cultivation meets the criteria of a customary and traditional practice as defined by state and federal law: cropping has and continues to fulfill a niche within several communities’ foodways best characterized as “outpost 
          1 Loring, P.A. and S.C. Gerlach. in Preparation. Outpost Gardening in Interior Alaska: Historical dimensions of food system innovation and the Aaska Native Gardens of the 1930s-70s. Agricultural History.  10 gardening” (after Francis 1967), valued not as a primary means of subsistence, but as one component of a flexible and diversified foodshed. 
1.2 INTRODUCTION 
The University of Alaska’s Cooperative Extension Service (CES) is presently aware of a great number of Alaska towns and villages, From Kotzebue to Ketchikan currently experimenting with some form of small-scale agriculture – be it community garden, greenhouse, 4-H or other school garden, timber harvest or wild berry stand cultivation (Hebert 2006; CES 2006). Though the thought of gardens in the arctic and sub-arctic may stretch the imagination for many not familiar with Alaska, and might be read as culture change when attributed to characteristically hunter/gatherer societies, Alaska Natives have in fact a rich and in some cases very successful history of leveraging crop cultivation as an adaptive strategy. When combined with the many university-run agricultural experiment stations and other urban gardening and farming initiatives, Alaska proves to be a proverbial “hot bed” of activity toward the development of new sustainable agriculture technologies for high latitudes. These new, innovative rural initiatives are emerging in response to an increasing problem of food and nutritional security, driven (in general) by exogenous economic, political and ecological changes such as the downscale, synergistic effects of global climate change and industrial development, with circumstances that differ widely from community to community (i.e. Eskimo, Athabascan, Aleut; coastal, inland, and island, etc.) but share a common set of themes (Duhaime 2002; Gerlach et al. in press; Kruse et al. 2004). Such new strategies 11 are proving to be out of step, however, with state and federal regulatory frameworks that govern (and to some extent protect) the uses of and access to land and wildlife resources by Alaska Natives for “subsistence” purposes, frameworks which tend to freeze Native activities temporally within a paradigm of documented and recognized “customary and traditional” behavior. These two words are powerful preconditions for the legitimacy of protected resource use by Alaska Natives that pose real ramifications for the ability of these people to continue to live and adapt on the land in the manner they see fit (Gerlach et al. in press). 
This paper presents data from archived materials of the US Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), Alaska Native Service (ANS), and the CES, along with existing ethnographic and oral history sources to show that these new crop cultivation practices meet state and federal criteria for both “customary” and “traditional” status. In particular, this paper focuses on records of the Athabascan Indian communities in the interior “flats” regions of the Yukon and Tanana rivers (Figures 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3), though the broader implications of the arguments made here extend to Native communities statewide. Though the gardens that these records document never quite lived up to the narrative of economic development pursued by the BIA, they were nevertheless successfully used by Alaska Natives to fill an important role in local foodways, contributing an additional measure of economic diversity and therefore resilience to these communities. Francis (1967) termed this strategy “outpost agriculture:” not compatible with open markets, nor driven by the notion of economic development, but high in utility and flexibly and customized to serve local, often changing needs. This paper will tell the story of this 12 
2 The Athabascan concept of ‘luck’ is complicated, and has to do with how success in living on the land comes best to those who ‘receive’ what the land has to offer, rather than to constantly ‘wish’ for the things they believe they need. This is related to the taboo enjee, which warns against the speaking of / predicting future events (Krupa 1999). 
practice within these Interior Alaskan communities of Arctic Village, Beaver, Canyon Village, Chalkyitsik, Circle, Fort Yukon, Minto, Rampart and Stevens Village, and will show that embedded in the strategy of outpost agriculture, as one part of many in a complex and adaptive cultural, economic and subsistence system, is evidence that flexibility and diversity are perhaps the most appropriate benchmarks of what is truly “customary and traditional.” 
1.3 SUBSISTENCE: THE LEGISLATIVE GEOGRAPHY OF ALASKA NATIVES 
Subsistence is a word. You know, a word you use to describe a way of life, our life. Though it doesn’t do a very good job. We used to live off the land but now we live off of subsistence. Do you know what I mean? I mean we used to live on our luck2, what the land gave us. But now we supposed to live on what the subsistence rules says we can have. Supposed to be better that way. We just want to be left alone. Anonymous Alaska Native speaker at the 2007 Alaska Forum on the Environment 
      It is important to understand why a discussion of crop cultivation as a customary and traditional practice is important to Alaska Native communities, and this requires a review of the unique legal context within which these communities’ subsistence activities are regulated. According to the current State of Alaska resource management regime, the country food harvest by Alaska Natives is defined in law as the “customary and 13 
          3 For example, the first chapter in Alaska Subsistence: A National Park Service Management History by Norris (2002) is titled “Alaska Native and Rural Lifeways Prior to 1971,” as if everything changed in terms of local “lifeways” with the passage of ANCSA. 
      traditional use of wild, renewable, fish and wildlife resources for food and other non-commercial purposes” (Alaska Statute 16.05.940(33)). Though this does provide a measure of protection, it comes with some troubling ramifications. As the Native gentleman is alluding to in the quote above, local foodways that once functioned in a highly flexible manner, mediated by complex ecological relationships between people, and between people and the landscape, are now also mediated by the regulatory frameworks and interpretations of state and federal resource management agencies that this law (and others like it) espouses (Huntington 1992). To put it another way, foodways become “locked in” to a traditional and customary temporal paradigm, the definition of which is outside local control (Allison and Hobbs 2004). 
      The timeline for what is and is not customary and traditional is often centered at 19713 – the year of the passage of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA), which created thirteen regional and local Native corporations with an economic and entitlement approach that differed significantly from the reservation and tribal model of the lower 48 states and parts of Canada. Through ANCSA, Alaska Natives received land and money as part of a land exchange to be divided among the state and federal government; these corporations were paid $962.5 million, and allowed to select forty-four million acres of land (Alaska is roughly 375 million acres in size) as compensation for the “extinguishment of their aboriginal title” (Case 1984; Mitchell 2003). ANCSA failed to take formal action on rights protecting the access to and use for subsistence 14 purposes of the lands forfeited in the deal, however. This omission led the U.S. Congress to passthe Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) in 1980, attempting to return some level of subsistence rights to Alaska Native people, establishing the eligibility for subsistence priority in resource management decisions with three criteria:“(1) customary and direct dependence upon the populations as the mainstay of livelihood; (2) local residency; and (3) the availability of alternative resources” (ANILCA, PL96-847 S804). Further, ANILCA defines subsistence use as: 
Customary and traditional uses by rural Alaska residents of wild renewable resources for direct personal or family consumption as food, shelter, fuel, clothing, tools, or transportation; for the making and selling of handicraft articles out of non edible by-products of fish and wildlife resources taken for personal or family consumption; for barter, or sharing for personal or family consumption; and for customary trade. (ANILCA, PL 96-847 S803) 
The country food harvest has been temporally fixed by this sort of language, extracted from the remainder of local life ways and placed into an artificial category that is reified by law and by the perceived need for ‘resource’ management. Alaskan Natives did not in the past divide their daily activities along lines that are clearly defined as modern or traditional, “for subsistence” or otherwise; they simply did what was necessary to make a living for themselves and their families, working on landscapes in and around their local communities. Today Native Alaskans do use the phrase, to describe some tangible thing outside of their community that needed to be protected; one community member told me that he supported my research because “they need to support anything that will be good 15 for subsistence.” Many also project the category upon everything they consider traditional and “worth saving” about their community’s way of life, as ‘subsistence’ is perceived by many to be their most viable legal venue for asserting cultural legitimacy and authority (Huntington 1992; Case 1984). In practice, however, this has the danger of further reducing/restricting their cultural heritage within exogenous definitions that are in fact largely out of their control. 
1.3.1 Customary, Traditional 
For historically-mobile indigenous communities like the Athabascans of Interior Alaska, it is the patterns of land use that are considered most traditional, more so than the specific harvest technologies and even the particular harvested animals (Nelson 1986; Pelto 1987; Kruse et al. 2004; Gerlach et al. in press). It is not the intent of this paper to embark on a discussion regarding the anthropological meanings of either “customary” or “traditional.” Regardless of such a debate, the research data presented here creates a clear pattern of and timeline for behavior and land use, with the intent of establishing a measure of legitimacy for Native gardens which other community-based initiatives, e.g. the restoration of Wood Bison in the Yukon Flats, have proven necessary when working within these state and federal subsistence frameworks (Stephenson et al. 2001; Sanderson et al. in press). This is a consideration acknowledged readily by the community members I have interviewed, who are both aware of and sensitive to these imposed definitions: 
We’ve got to make a living, you know? But some people worry, that if we stop looking or acting like hunters and fishers we’ll lose what rights we have left on 16 
4 Sumida (1989) appears to be the only ADF&G community subsistence profile to include (a very short) note, under the heading “Plant Resources” (p. 66) about contemporary family gardens, though no mention is made of the role they played prior to 1989. 
this land. Using a motorboat, you know, out on the flats doesn’t make us less traditional, but digging for potatoes when we could be fishing, to some people, does. If we ask the department of game for more moose tags or longer hunting seasons, or to hunt out of season, because we need to eat, they’ll tell us to eat our potatoes. (Anonymous 2006) 
To many people, gardening seems quite non-native – outside that regulated sphere of tradition. The 1998 review of 100 years of Agriculture in Alaska, published by the University of Alaska Fairbanks (UAF)’s School of Agriculture, for instance, makes no mention whatsoever of the long history of native subsistence gardening that I will present here. Nor is cropping mentioned in various subsistence reports from the Alaska Department of Fish & Game (ADF&G)4 or in the National Park Services’s 2002 historical review Alaska Subsistence (Norris 2002; Andrews 1988; Caulfield 1983; Sumida 1989). These omissions do the Native communities a great disservice, not just with respect to their history, but beyond the rights to hunt or to garden and deep into their ability to maintain self-reliance through local control over the food supply. 
1.4 SETTING: INTERIOR ALASKA, THE YUKON AND TANANA RIVER FLATS 
The rural Alaskan communities of the Yukon and Tanana river flats involved in this research are Arctic Village, Beaver, Canyon Village, Chalkyitsik, Circle, Fort 17 5 Herman Turner, Agricultural Agent-at-Large, University of Alaska Cooperative Extension (CES), letter to Mr. Vern V. Hirch, Assistant Director of the Division of Resources, ANS, dated May 18, 1956; Mr Turner lists Fort Yukon, Circle, Venetie, Arctic Village, Beaver, Stevens Village and Minto, as the places visited on a tour of “Central Yukon.” Though not referenced in this letter, Rampart, Chalkyitsik and Canyon Village are also found grouped with these villages. 
File 916, Garden Subsistence(GS); General Subject Correspondence 1933-1963 (GSC); Alaska Reindeer Service (RR); Record Group (RG) 75; National Archives Pacific Alaska Region (NAPA) 
Yukon, Minto, Rampart and Stevens Village (Figure 1.3). Not only do these communities share a distinct geographic setting and historical context (Olson 1981), they also were dealt with together as an informal management unit by the BIA5. The setting of the communities spans from the Upper Yukon River Watershed, down through to the Lower Tanana River Watershed, a vast wetlands basin bounded roughly by the Yukon and Tanana rivers (Figures 1.1 and 1.2). The “flats” between these two major rivers is underlain by permafrost and includes a complex network of lakes, streams, and rivers. The area is characterized by mixed boreal forests with rolling hills, scattered meadows and bogs, and is dominated by spruce, birch, and aspen. The communities straddle both sides of the arctic circle, but the area has in general a continental subarctic climate with great seasonal extremes in temperature and daylight: summer temperatures can reach 100 degrees F, whereas winter temperatures can drop to -70 degrees F (USFWS 2006; AKDEC 2006). 
      Movement on and across this landscape is fundamental to the feasibility of Native Alaskan adaptive strategies, the patterns of which co-developed over millennia with the migratory patterns and population cycles of harvested animals. These communities are best known as fishers, game hunters and wild resource gatherers, with country foods such as as salmon, whitefish, moose, caribou, beaver, ptarmigan and waterfowl, and botanical resources such as berries, wild rhubarb and rosehips, continuing to represent over 80% of 18 local diets (Wolfe and Bosworth 1990; Norris 2002). Fall activities are dominated by the moose/caribou hunts, and most still travel to fish camps each summer: seasonally used fishing and trapping areas on the Tanana and Yukon rivers, as well as their tributaries/distributaries. Indeed harvested lands today remain remarkably similar to those utilities at the turn of the 20th century (Figures 1.4, 1.5). But today the logistics of travel across these harvest areas is complicated and brings external forces to bear on local adaptive capacity and food security. The seasonal mobility and flexibility that once typified Alaska Native adaptations no longer functions in the same way because people are now tied to permanent villages, and reliant on the purchase and maintenance of transportation technologies (i.e. ATVs and gasoline). Mobility is further constrained a patchwork of state, federal and private land ownership (Figure 1.6) and an institutional and regulatory framework that puts federal and state agencies in a position to legislate control over much of the landscape (Gerlach et al. in press; Juday et al. 1998; Krupnik and Jolly 2002; Nationalatlas.gov 2003). Within the last two or three years this has been further aggravated by ecological changes in weather and land cover. Particulars of these downscale impacts of global climate change in Alaska’s interior are poorly understood, though the current and projected biophysical impacts of climate change are expected to be the most extreme in high latitudes (Overpeck et al. 2005). Hunters cite observations that match with the anticipated phenology of climate change: including the shifting of seasons, time of and time between freeze-up and break-up, lower water levels on the rivers, and new distributions/migration patterns of fish, game, plants and insects. Despite these perceived changes, however, appropriate compensatory changes have not been 19 made by Alaska Department of Fish and Game (ADF&G) or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) officials to the regulations surrounding hunting and fishing seasons (though a formal venue does exist to petition for hunting rights in special circumstances when food is particularly short). In combination with the fact that state regulations prohibit the assignment of a ‘rural’ preference for wildlife resources (over urban and tourist hunters), these regulatory frameworks do little in practice toward representing the changing needs of these communities (Gerlach et al. in press; Huntington 1992; Caulfield 2002). 
1.5 BACKGROUND: A PERSPECTIVE ON ALASKA AND ALASKA NATIVES’ AGRICULTURAL HISTORY 
      The first Russian settlers of Alaska (early-to-mid 1800s) are generally considered to be the first to try their hand at cropping in the territory (Hanscom 1998). They failed rather miserably at it, mostly because of a lack of agrarian tradition and an inability to enlist the support of a sizeable number of serfs, the only Russian people with a background in agriculture (Shortridge 1972). They did, however, manage to share the tradition of potato growing to the Native peoples of Southeast Alaska and the Pacific Northwest; indeed the Haida grew potatoes as an export crop for both the Russian American Company as well as the Hudson’s Bay Company (Ransom 1946; Shortridge 1972; Dean 1995). Some cropping was also practiced in Interior Alaska, introduced with the Canadians of the Hudson’s Bay Company’s establishment of Fort Yukon in 1847: the Athabascan people of the area began growing potatoes, vegetables, and even some cereal 20 6 At the time the Bureau of Indian Affairs was called the Office of Indian Affairs 
            7 G.S. Wilson, ANS Schoolteacher, to Mr. Claude M. Hirst, General Superintendent, Office of Indian Affairs, Juneau, AK. 9/3/1937; File 916, GS; GSC; RR; RG75; NAPA 
      grains for food and for trade (Shortridge 1972). While only fragments of documentation for this exists prior to 1941, mention of potatoes and some other root vegetables does appear from time to time in a variety of correspondence between BIA6 agents and the office in Juneau. It seems that the native communities were growing crops whenever visitors offered seeds to trade, albeit in a fashion that would not have been recognized as ‘organized’ gardening, as per one Alaska Native Service (ANS) school teacher, who also mentions in an early (1937) report that “gardening prospects here are good, despite the poor land, as the Indians already have a taste for potatoes and turnips.”7 
Alaska had, just prior to the turn of the 20th century, entered the realm of “new frontier” in the minds of those stateside, and a pioneer agriculture movement to populate Alaska with aspiring Euro-American farmers from the lower-48 emerged with ardor; it would eventually prove, however, to be nearly as much a failure as the Russian attempts had been (Shortridge 1972; Francis 1967). By the 1890s nearly all of the major areas of fertile, drought-free lands in the continental U.S. had been claimed, and it seemed that the only remaining option was Alaska (Shortridge 1972). With the 1902 declaration by the head of the US Department of Agriculture’s experiment station in Fairbanks, “it has been demonstrated that Alaska has agricultural possibilities of a high order,” the land rush was officially on (Georgeson 1902; Hanscom 1998). The migration seemed to make a strong start; by 1929 there were 500 farms reported to the US Census, none of which, however, established by Alaska Natives (ARDC 1974; Francis 1967). But as transportation into 21 
8 Whether real or perceived, the coldness of river water is mentioned often in BIA reports from schoolteachers as an obstacle. 
and through the state improved (i.e. with the building of rail lines) the cost of shipping came down and lightweight packaged goods like dry milk became cheaper, Alaskan agriculture, already plagued by the inherent difficulties cropping in the north, e.g. poor soils, unpredictable frosts, and a short growing season, was increasingly out-competed by imported foods (Francis 1967; CES 2001; Loring 2006). Upstart farms went defunct as quickly as they had been established, and there was soon a general understanding among bureaucrats that agriculture could only make up a small part of Alaska’s long-term economic growth (Shortridge 1972). 
      To elaborate on the difficulties of cropping in the north, Interior Alaska poses a number of geographic and ecological challenges and constraints. The high latitude, for example, makes for an extremely short growing seasons (12-14 weeks at the most), and within that season there is relatively high-frequency of mid-summer and early fall frosts and/or freezes; similarly, the extreme cold temperatures during the winter also serves to kill all but the hardiest perennials (CES 2001; AKDEC 2006). In many villages the river water was also considered to be too cold for direct irrigation, requiring some sort of pump & reservoir infrastructure8. The prevalence of black spruce (Picea mariana) in the boreal ecosystem also creates its own set of challenges: the root structures are shallow and widespread, and in concert with the active forest fire regimes, creates extremely acidic soils (O'Neill et al. 2002; Wikipedia 2006; LeBarron 1945). Too, smoke from the high-frequency of forest fires collects within the basin of the Alaskan interior, and during 22 
heavy burn years can significantly limit sunlight (Wikipedia 2006; Rupp et al. 2002; Juday et al. 1998).
