In the middle of the last century, two young scientists conducted experiments that should
have changed the world—but did not.
Harry F. Harlow was a professor of psychology at the University of Wisconsin who, in
the 1940s, established one of the world’s first laboratories for studying primate behavior.
One day in 1949, Harlow and two colleagues gathered eight rhesus monkeys for a twoweek
experiment on learning. The researchers devised a simple mechanical puzzle like
the one pictured on the next page. Solving it required three steps: pull out the vertical pin,
undo the hook, and lift the hinged cover. Pretty easy for you and me, far more
challenging for a thirteen-pound lab monkey.
Harlow’s puzzle in the starting (left) and solved (right) positions.
The experimenters placed the puzzles in the monkeys’ cages to observe how they
reacted—and to prepare them for tests of their problem-solving prowess at the end of the
two weeks. But almost immediately, something strange happened. Unbidden by any
outside urging and unprompted by the experimenters, the monkeys began playing with
the puzzles with focus, determination, and what looked like enjoyment. And in short
order, they began figuring out how the contraptions worked. By the time Harlow tested
the monkeys on days 13 and 14 of the experiment, the primates had become quite adept.
They solved the puzzles frequently and quickly; two-thirds of the time they cracked the
code in less than sixty seconds.
Now, this was a bit odd. Nobody had taught the monkeys how to remove the pin, slide
the hook, and open the cover. Nobody had rewarded them with food, affection, or even
quiet applause when they succeeded. And that ran counter to the accepted notions of how
primates—including the bigger-brained, less hairy primates known as human beings—
behaved.
Scientists then knew that two main drives powered behavior. The first was the biological
drive. Humans and other animals ate to sate their hunger, drank to quench their thirst, and
copulated to satisfy their carnal urges. But that wasn’t happening here. “Solution did not
lead to food, water, or sex gratification,” Harlow reported.1
But the only other known drive also failed to explain the monkeys’ peculiar behavior. If
biological motivations came from within, this second drive came from without—the
rewards and punishments the environment delivered for behaving in certain ways. This
was certainly true for humans, who responded exquisitely to such external forces. If you
promised to raise our pay, we’d work harder. If you held out the prospect of getting an A
on the test, we’d study longer. If you threatened to dock us for showing up late or for
incorrectly completing a form, we’d arrive on time and tick every box. But that didn’t
account for the monkeys’ actions either. As Harlow wrote, and you can almost hear him
scratching his head, “The behavior obtained in this investigation poses some interesting
questions for motivation theory, since significant learning was attained and efficient
performance maintained without resort to special or extrinsic incentives.”
What else could it be?
To answer the question, Harlow offered a novel theory—what amounted to a third drive:
“The performance of the task,” he said, “provided intrinsic reward.” The monkeys solved
the puzzles simply because they found it gratifying to solve puzzles. They enjoyed it. The
joy of the task was its own reward.
If this notion was radical, what happened next only deepened the confusion and
controversy. Perhaps this newly discovered drive—Harlow eventually called it “intrinsic
motivation”—was real. But surely it was subordinate to the other two drives. If the
monkeys were rewarded—with raisins!—for solving the puzzles, they’d no doubt
perform even better. Yet when Harlow tested that approach, the monkeys actually made
more errors and solved the puzzles less frequently. “Introduction of food in the present
experiment,” Harlow wrote, “served to disrupt performance, a phenomenon not reported
in the literature.”
Now, this was really odd. In scientific terms, it was akin to rolling a steel ball down an
inclined plane to measure its velocity—only to watch the ball float into the air instead. It
suggested that our understanding of the gravitational pulls on our behavior was
inadequate—that what we thought were fixed laws had plenty of loopholes. Harlow
emphasized the “strength and persistence” of the monkeys’ drive to complete the puzzles.
Then he noted:
It would appear that this drive . . . may be as basic and strong as the [other] drives.
Furthermore, there is some reason to believe that [it] can be as efficient in facilitating
learning.2
At the time, however, the prevailing two drives held a tight grip on scientific thinking. So
Harlow sounded the alarm. He urged scientists to “close down large sections of our
theoretical junkyard” and offer fresher, more accurate accounts of human behavior.3 He
warned that our explanation of why we did what we did was incomplete. He said that to
truly understand the human condition, we had to take account of this third drive.
Then he pretty much dropped the whole idea.
Rather than battle the establishment and begin offering a more complete view of
motivation, Harlow abandoned this contentious line of research and later became famous
for studies on the science of affection.4 His notion of this third drive bounced around the
psychological literature, but it remained on the periphery—of behavioral science and of
our understanding of ourselves. It would be two decades before another scientist picked
up the thread that Harlow had so provocatively left on that Wisconsin laboratory table.
In the summer of 1969, Edward Deci was a Carnegie Mellon University psychology
graduate student in search of a dissertation topic. Deci, who had already earned an MBA
from Wharton, was intrigued by motivation but suspected that scholars and
businesspeople had misunderstood it. So, tearing a page from the Harlow playbook, he
set out to study the topic with the help of a puzzle.
Deci chose the Soma puzzle cube, a then popular Parker Brothers offering that, thanks to
YouTube, retains something of a cult following today. The puzzle, shown below, consists
of seven plastic pieces—six comprising four one-inch cubes, one comprising three oneinch
cubes. Players can assemble the seven pieces into a few million possible
combinations—from abstract shapes to recognizable objects.
The seven pieces of the Soma puzzle unassembled (left) and then fashioned into one of
several million possible configurations.
For the study, Deci divided participants, male and female university students, into an
experimental group (what I’ll call Group A) and a control group (what I’ll call Group B).
Each participated in thr
Here’s how the sessions worked: Each participant entered a room and sat at a table on top
of which were the seven Soma puzzle pieces, drawings of three puzzle configurations,
and copies of Time, The New Yorker, and Playboy. (Hey, it was 1969.) Deci sat on the
opposite end of the table to explain the instructions and to time performance with a
stopwatch.
In the first session, members of both groups had to assemble the Soma pieces to replicate
the configurations before them. In the second session, they did the same thing with
different drawings—only this time Deci told Group A that they’d be paid $1 (the
equivalent of nearly $6 today) for every configuration they successfully reproduced.
Group B, meanwhile, got new drawings but no pay. Finally, in the third session, both
groups received new drawings and had to reproduce them for no compensation, just as in
session one. (See the table below.)
HOW THE TWO GROUPS WERE TREATED
The twist came midway through each session. After a participant had assembled the
Soma puzzle pieces to match two of the three drawings, Deci halted the proceedings. He
said that he was going to give them a fourth drawing—but to choose the right one, he
needed to feed their completion times into a computer. And—this being the late 1960s,
when room-straddling mainframes were the norm and desktop PCs were still a decade
away—that meant he had to leave for a little while.
On the way out, he said, “I shall be gone only a few minutes, you may do whatever you
like while I’m gone.” But Deci wasn’t really plugging numbers into an ancient teletype.
Instead, he walked to an adjoining room connected to the experiment room by a one-way
window. Then, for exactly eight minutes, he watched what people did when left alone.
Did they continue fiddling with the puzzle, perhaps attempting to reproduce the third
drawing? Or did they do something else—page through the magazines, check out the
centerfold, stare into space, catch a quick nap?
In the first session, not surprisingly, there wasn’t much difference between what the
Group A and Group B participants did during that secretly watched eight-minute freechoice
period. Both continued playing with the puzzle, on average, for between three and
a half and four minutes, suggesting they found it at least somewhat interesting.
On the second day, during which Group A participants were paid for each successful
configuration and Group B participants were not, the unpaid group behaved mostly as
they had during the first free-choice period. But the paid group suddenly got really
interested in Soma puzzles. On average, the people in Group A spent more than five
minutes messing with the puzzle, perhaps getting a head start on that third challenge or
gearing up for the chance to earn some beer money when Deci returned. This makes
intuitive sense, right? It’s consistent with what we believe about motivation: Reward me
and I’ll work harder.
Yet what happened on the third day confirmed Deci’s own suspicions about the peculiar
workings of motivation—and gently called into question a guiding premise of modern
life. This time, Deci told the participants in Group A that there was only enough money
to pay them for one day and that this third session would therefore be unpaid. Then things
unfolded just as before—two puzzles, followed by Deci’s interruption.
During the ensuing eight-minute free-choice period, the subjects in the never-been-paid
Group B actually played with the puzzle for a little longer than they had in previous
sessions. Maybe they were becoming ever more engaged; maybe it was just a statistical
quirk. But the subjects in Group A, who previously had been paid, responded differently.
They now spent significantly less time playing with the puzzle—not only about two
minutes less than during their paid session, but about a full minute less than in the first
session when they initially encountered, and obviously enjoyed, the puzzles.
In an echo of what Harlow discovered two decades earlier, Deci revealed that human
motivation seemed to operate by laws that ran counter to what most scientists and citizens
believed. From the office to the playing field, we knew what got people going.
Rewards—especially cold, hard cash—intensified interest and enhanced performance.
What Deci found, and then confirmed in two additional studies he conducted shortly
thereafter, was almost the opposite. “When money is used as an external reward for some
activity, the subjects lose intrinsic interest for the activity,” he wrote.5 Rewards can
deliver a short-term boost—just as a jolt of caffeine can keep you cranking for a few
more hours. But the effect wears off—and, worse, can reduce a person’s longer-term
motivation to continue the project.
Human beings, Deci said, have an “inherent tendency to seek out novelty and challenges,
to extend and exercise their capacities, to explore, and to learn.” But this third drive was
more fragile than the other two; it needed the right environment to survive. “One who is
interested in developing and enhancing intrinsic motivation in children, employees,
students, etc., should not concentrate on external-control systems such as monetary
rewards,” he wrote in a f ollow-up paper.6 Thus began what for Deci became a lifelong
quest to rethink why we do what we do—a pursuit that sometimes put him at odds with
fellow psychologists, got him fired from a business school, and challenged the operating
assumptions of organizations everywhere.
“It was controversial,” Deci told me one spring morning forty years after the Soma
experiments. “Nobody was expecting rewards would have a negative effect.”
THIS IS A BOOK about motivation. I will show that much of what we believe about the
subject just isn’t so—and that the insights that Harlow and Deci began uncovering a few
decades ago come much closer to the truth. The problem is that most businesses haven’t
caught up to this new understanding of what motivates us. Too many organizations—not
just companies, but governments and nonprofits as well—still operate from assumptions
about human potential and individual performance that are outdated, unexamined, and
rooted more in folklore than in science. They continue to pursue practices such as shortterm
incentive plans and pay-for-performance schemes in the face of mounting evidence
that such measures usually don’t work and often do harm. Worse, these practices have
infiltrated our schools, where we ply our future workforce with iPods, cash, and pizza
coupons to “incentivize” them to learn. Something has gone wrong.
The good news is that the solution stands before us—in the work of a band of behavioral
scientists who have carried on the pioneering efforts of Harlow and Deci and whose quiet
work over the last half-century offers us a more dynamic view of human motivation. For
too long, there’s been a mismatch between what science knows and what business does.
The goal of this book is to repair that breach.
Drive has three parts. Part One will look at the flaws in our reward-and-punishment
system and propose a new way to think about motivation. Chapter 1 will examine how
the prevailing view of motivation is becoming incompatible with many aspects of
contemporary business and life. Chapter 2 will reveal the seven reasons why carrot-andstick
extrinsic motivators often produce the opposite of what they set out to achieve.
(Following that is a short addendum, Chapter 2a, that shows the special circumstances
when carrots and sticks actually can be effective.) Chapter 3 will introduce what I call
“Type I” behavior, a way of thinking and an approach to business grounded in the real
science of human motivation and powered by our third drive—our innate need to direct
our own lives, to learn and create new things, and to do better by ourselves and our
world.
Part Two will examine the three elements of Type I behavior and show how individuals
and organizations are using them to improve performance and deepen satisfaction.
Chapter 4 will explore autonomy, our desire to be self-directed. Chapter 5 will look at
mastery, our urge to get better and better at what we do. Chapter 6 will explore purpose,
our yearning to be part of something larger than ourselves.
Part Three, the Type I Toolkit, is a comprehensive set of resources to help you create
settings in which Type I behavior can flourish. Here you’ll find everything from dozens
of exercises to awaken motivation in yourself and others, to discussion questions for your
book club, to a supershort summary of Drive that will help you fake your way through a
cocktail party. And while this book is mostly about business, in this section I’ll offer
some thoughts about how to apply these concepts to education and to our lives outside of
work.
But before we get down to all that, let’s begin with a thought experiment, one that
requires going back in time—to the days when John Major was Britain’s prime minister,
Barack Obama was a skinny young law professor, Internet connections were dial-up, and
a blackberry was still just a fruit.
Part One
A New Operating System
CHAPTER 1
The Rise and Fall of Motivation 2.0
Imagine it’s 1995. You sit down with an economist—an accomplished business school
professor with a Ph.D. in economics. You say to her: “I’ve got a crystal ball here that can
peer fifteen years into the future. I’d like to test your forecasting powers.”
She’s skeptical, but she decides to humor you.
“I’m going to describe two new encyclopedias—one just out, the other to be launched in
a few years. You have to predict which will be more successful in 2010.”
“Bring it,” she says.
“The first encyclopedia comes from Microsoft. As you know, Microsoft is already a large
and profitable company. And with this year’s introduction of Windows 95, it’s about to
become an era-defining colossus. Microsoft will fund this encyclopedia. It will pay
professional writers and editors to craft articles on thousands of topics. Wellcompensated
managers will oversee the project to ensure it’s completed on budget and on
time. Then Microsoft will sell the encyclopedia on CD-ROMs and later online.
“The second encyclopedia won’t come from a company. It will be created by tens of
thousands of people who write and edit articles for fun. These hobbyists won’t need any
special qualifications to participate. And nobody will be paid a dollar or a euro or a yen to
write or edit articles. Participants will have to contribute their labor—sometimes twenty
and thirty hours per week—for free. The encyclopedia itself, which will exist online, will
also be free—no charge for anyone who wants to use it.
“Now,” you say to the economist, “think forward fifteen years. According to my crystal
ball, in 2010, one of these encyclopedias will be the largest and most popular in the world
and the other will be defunct. Which is which?”
In 1995, I doubt you could have a found a single sober economist anywhere on planet
Earth who would not have picked that first model as the success. Any other conclusion
would have been laughable—contrary to nearly every business principle she taught her
students. It would have been like asking a zoologist who would win a 200-meter footrace
between a cheetah and your brother-in-law. Not even close.
Sure, that ragtag band of volunteers might produce something. But there was no way its
product could compete with an offering from a powerful profit-driven company. The
incentives were all wrong. Microsoft stood to gain from the success of its product;
everyone involved in the other project knew from the outset that success would earn them
nothing. Most important, Microsoft’s writers, editors, and managers were paid. The other
project’s contributors were not. In fact, it probably cost them money each time they
performed free work instead of remunerative labor. The question was such a no-brainer
that our economist wouldn’t even have considered putting it on an exam for her MBA
class. It was too easy.
But you know how things turned out.
On October 31, 2009, Microsoft pulled the plug on MSN Encarta, its disc and online
encyclopedia, which had been on the market for sixteen years. Meanwhile, Wikipedia—
that second model—ended up becoming the largest and most popular encyclopedia in the
world. Just eight years after its inception, Wikipedia had more than 13 million articles in
some 260 languages, including 3 million in English alone.1
What happened? The conventional view of human motivation has a very hard time
explaining this result.
THE TRIUMPH OF CARROTS AND
STICKS
Computers—whether the giant mainframes in Deci’s experiments, the iMac on which
I’m writing this sentence, or the mobile phone chirping in your pocket—all have
operating systems. Beneath the surface of the hardware you touch and the programs you
manipulate is a complex layer of software that contains the instructions, protocols, and
suppositions that enable everything to function smoothly. Most of us don’t think much
about operating systems. We notice them only when they start failing—when the
hardware and software they’re supposed to manage grow too large and complicated for
the current operating system to handle. Then our computer starts crashing. We complain.
And smart software developers, who’ve always been tinkering with pieces of the
program, sit down to write a fundamentally better one—an upgrade.
Societies also have operating systems. The laws, social customs, and economic
arrangements that we encounter each day sit atop a layer of instructions, protocols, and
suppositions about how the world works. And much of our societal operating system
consists of a set of assumptions about human behavior.
In our very early days—I mean very early days, say, fifty thousand years ago—the
underlying assumption about human behavior was simple and true. We were trying to
survive. From roaming the savannah to gather food to scrambling for the bushes when a
saber-toothed tiger approached, that drive guided most of our behavior. Call this early
operating system Motivation 1.0. It wasn’t especially elegant, nor was it much different
from those of rhesus monkeys, giant apes, or many other animals. But it served us nicely.
It worked well. Until it didn’t.
As humans formed more complex societies, bumping up against strangers and needing to
cooperate in order to get things done, an operating system based purely on the biological
drive was inadequate. In fact, sometimes we needed ways to restrain this drive—to
prevent me from swiping your dinner and you from stealing my spouse. And so in a feat
of remarkable cultural engineering, we slowly replaced what we had with a version more
compatible with how we’d begun working and living.
At the core of this new and improved operating system was a revised and more accurate
assumption: Humans are more than the sum of our biological urges. That first drive still
mattered—no doubt about that—but it didn’t fully account for who we are. We also had a
second drive—to seek reward and avoid punishment more broadly. And it was from this
insight that a new operating system—call it Motivation 2.0—arose. (Of course, other
animals also respond to rewards and punishments, but only humans have proved able to
channel this drive to develop everything from contract law to convenience stores.)
Harnessing this second drive has been essential to economic progress around the world,
especially during the last two centuries. Consider the Industrial Revolution.
Technological developments—steam engines, railroads, widespread electricity—played a
crucial role in fostering the growth of industry. But so did less tangible innovations—in
particular, the work of an American engineer named Frederick Winslow Taylor. In the
early 1900s, Taylor, who believed businesses were being run in an inefficient, haphazard
way, invented what he called “scientific management.” His invention was a form of
“software” expertly crafted to run atop the Motivation 2.0 platform. And it was widely
and quickly adopted.
Workers, this approach held, were like parts in a complicated machine. If they did the
right work in the right way at the right time, the machine would function smoothly. And
to ensure that happened, you simply rewarded the behavior you sought and punished the
behavior you discouraged. People would respond rationally to these external forces—
these extrinsic motivators—and both they and the system itself would flourish. We tend
to think that coal and oil have powered economic development. But in some sense, the
engine of commerce has been fueled equally by carrots and sticks.
The Motivation 2.0 operating system has endured for a very long time. Indeed, it is so
deeply embedded in our lives that most of us scarcely recognize that it exists. For as long
as any of us can remember, we’ve configured our organizations and constructed our lives
around its bedrock assumption: The way to improve performance, increase productivity,
and encourage excellence is to reward the good and punish the bad.
Despite its greater sophistication and higher aspirations, Motivation 2.0 still wasn’t
exactly ennobling. It suggested that, in the end, human beings aren’t much different from
horses—that the way to get us moving in the right direction is by dangling a crunchier
carrot or wielding a sharper stick. But what this operating system lacked in
enlightenment, it made up for in effectiveness. It worked well—extremely well. Until it
didn’t.
As the twentieth century progressed, as economies grew still more complex, and as the
people in them had to deploy new, more sophisticated skills, the Motivation 2.0 approach
encountered some resistance. In the 1950s, Abraham Maslow, a former student of Harry
Harlow’s at the University of Wisconsin, developed the field of humanistic psychology,
which questioned the idea that human behavior was purely the ratlike seeking of positive
stimuli and avoidance of negative stimuli. In 1960, MIT management professor Douglas
McGregor imported some of Maslow’s ideas to the business world. McGregor challenged
the presumption that humans are fundamentally inert—that absent external rewards and
punishments, we wouldn’t do much. People have other, higher drives, he said. And these
drives could benefit businesses if managers and business leaders respected them. Thanks
in part to McGregor’s writing, companies evolved a bit. Dress codes relaxed, schedules
became more flexible. Many organizations looked for ways to grant employees greater
autonomy and to help them grow. These refinements repaired some weaknesses, but they
amounted to a modest improvement rather than a thorough upgrade—Motivation 2.1.
And so this general approach remained intact—because it was, after all, easy to
understand, simple to monitor, and straightforward to enforce. But in the first ten years of
this century—a period of truly staggering underachievement in business, technology, and
Go back to that encyclopedic showdown between Microsoft and Wikipedia. The
assumptions at the heart of Motivation 2.0 suggest that such a result shouldn’t even be
possible. Wikipedia’s triumph seems to defy the laws of behavioral physics.
Now, if this all-volunteer, all-amateur encyclopedia were the only instance of its kind, we
might dismiss it as an aberration, an exception that proves the rule. But it’s not. Instead,
Wikipedia represents the most powerful new business model of the twenty-first century:
open source
Fire up your home computer, for example. When you visit the Web to check the weather
forecast or order some sneakers, you might be using Firefox, a free open-source Web
browser created almost exclusively by volunteers around the world. Unpaid laborers who
give away their product? That couldn’t be sustainable. The incentives are all wrong. Yet
Firefox now has more than 150 million users.
Or walk into the IT department of a large company anywhere in the world and ask for a
tour. That company’s corporate computer servers could well run on Linux, software
devised by an army of unpaid programmers and available for free. Linux now powers one
in four corporate servers. Then ask an employee to explain how the company’s website
works. Humming beneath the site is probably Apache, free open-source Web server
software created and maintained by a far-flung global group of volunteers. Apache’s
share of the corporate Web server market: 52 percent. In other words, companies that
typically rely on external rewards to manage their employees run some of their most
important systems with products created by nonemployees who don’t seem to need such
rewards.
And it’s not just the tens of thousands of software projects across the globe. Today you
can find: open-source cookbooks; open-source textbooks; open-source car design; opensource
medical research; open-source legal briefs; open-source stock photography; opensource
prosthetics; open-source credit unions; open-source cola; and for those for whom
soft drinks won’t suffice, open-source beer.
This new way of organizing what we do doesn’t banish extrinsic rewards. People in the
open-source movement haven’t taken vows of poverty. For many, participation in these
projects can burnish their reputations and sharpen their skills, which can enhance their
earning power. Entrepreneurs have launched new, and sometimes lucrative, companies to
help organizations implement and maintain open-source software applications.
But ultimately, open source depends on intrinsic motivation with the same ferocity that
older business models rely on extrinsic motivation, as several scholars have shown. MIT
management professor Karim Lakhani and Boston Consulting Group consultant Bob
Wolf surveyed 684 open-source developers, mostly in North America and Europe, about
why they participated in these projects. Lakhani and Wolf uncovered a range of motives,
but they found “that enjoyment-based intrinsic motivation, namely how creative a person
feels when working on the project, is the strongest and most pervasive driver.”2 A large
majority of programmers, the researchers discovered, reported that they frequently
reached the state of optimal challenge called “flow.” Likewise, three German economists
who studied open-source projects around the world found that what drives participants is
“a set of predominantly intrinsic motives”—in particular, “the fun . . . of mastering the
challenge of a given software problem” and the “desire to give a gift to the programmer
community.”3 Motivation 2.0 has little room for these sorts of impulses.
What’s more, open source is only one way people are restructuring what they do along
new organizational lines and atop different motivational ground. Let’s move from
software code to the legal code. The laws in most developed countries permit essentially
two types of business organizations—profit and nonprofit. One makes money, the other
does good. And the most prominent member of that first category is the publicly held
corporation—owned by shareholders and run by managers who are overseen by a board
of directors. The managers and directors bear one overriding responsibility: to maximize
shareholder gain. Other types of business organizations steer by the same rules of the
road. In the United States, for instance, partnerships, S corporations, C corporations,
limited liability corporations, and other business configurations all aim toward a common
end. The objective of those who run them—practically, legally, in some ways morally—
is to maximize profit.
Let me give a rousing, heartfelt, and grateful cheer for these business forms and the
farsighted countries that enable their citizens to create them. Without them, our lives
would be infinitely less prosperous, less healthy, and less happy. But in the last few
years, several people around the world have been changing the recipe and cooking up
new varieties of business organizations.
For example, in April 2008, Vermont became the first U.S. state to allow a new type of
business called the “low-profit limited liability corporation.” Dubbed an L3C, this entity
is a corporation—but not as we typically think of it. As one report explained, an L3C
“operate[s] like a for-profit business generating at least modest profits, but its primary
aim [is] to offer significant social benefits.” Three other U.S. states have followed
Vermont’s lead.4 An L3C in North Carolina, for instance, is buying abandoned furniture
factories in the state, updating them with green technology
