And Then There Were None is a mystery novel by Agatha Christie, widely considered her masterpiece and described by her as the most difficult of her books to have written. In the novel, ten people are enticed into coming to an island under different pretexts, i.e. offers of employment or to enjoy a late summer holiday, or to meet with old friends. All have been complicit in the death(s) of other human beings but either escaped justice or committed an act that was not subject to legal sanction. The guests are charged with their respective "crimes" by a gramophone recording after dinner the first night and informed that they have been brought to the island to pay for their actions. They are the only people on the island, and cannot escape due to the distance from the mainland and the inclement weather, yet gradually all ten are killed in turn, in a manner that seems to parallel the ten deaths in the nursery rhyme. Nobody else seems to be left alive on the island by the apparently last death. A confession in the form of a postscript to the novel, unveils how the killings took place and who was responsible. It is Christie's best-selling novel with 100 million sales to date, making it the world's best-selling mystery ever, and one of the best-selling books of all time.
Plot summary
Eight people arrive on an isolated island off the Devonshire coast of England. Each appears to have an invitation tailored to his or her personal circumstances, such as an offer of employment or an unexpected late summer holiday. They are met by the island owners' butler and cook (who have never met their employer), making a total of ten people known to be on the island. While awaiting their hosts, they find a framed copy of the nursery rhyme "Ten Little Soldiers" ("Niggers" or "Indians" in respective earlier editions) hanging on the wall, and notice ten figurines on the dining room table, as well as discussing other oddities about the house and their visit. The butler plays a gramophone (or "phonograph") record while they are talking, as he had been instructed to do; unexpectedly the recording contains a voice that describes each visitor in turn and accuses each of having committed murder but evading justice, and asks if any of "the accused" wishes to give a defense. All are shocked and in the aftermath one of the guests (Anthony Marston) has a drink to help with the shock, however his drink contained potassium cyanide and he chokes and dies. Subsequently the guests notice one of the ten figurines is now broken, and the nursery rhyme appears to reflect the manner of death ("One choked his little self and then there were nine").
Over the next two days, Mrs Rogers, the cook, dies from a lethal dose of chloral hydrate, a sleeping medication ("one overslept himself"), and then General MacArthur is found dead from a blow to the back of his skull, having predicted earlier to Vera that none of them would leave the island alive ("one said he'd stay there"). In each case the death matches the rhyme and is accompanied by another broken figurine. Three of the men search the island but there seems nowhere on the bare rock for a stranger to hide, and the bad weather would not allow any boats to visit. They decide that one of the remaining visitors must be a mad killer. The next morning Thomas Rogers, the butler, is found dead in the woodshed, having been struck by an axe ("one chopped himself in halves"), and later that day the fifth death occurs when Emily Brent is killed by an injection of cyanide ("a bumblebee sting").

Wargrave suggests they lock up any potential weapons, including Dr. Armstrong's medical equipment and his own sleeping pills. They use two locks, giving one key to soldier of fortune Philip Lombard and the other to ex-policeman William Blore. Lombard admits to bringing a revolver to the island and initially refuses to turn it over until the others force him to do so. When he goes to get it, he seems genuinely confounded that it is missing. To stay safe, they agree that only one person will leave the others at any given time. Ex-governess Vera Claythorne screams after her face brushes against seaweed which has been hung from a ceiling hook in her darkened room, causing the others to run upstairs to help. Once upstairs they realize Wargrave is not with them. He is found sitting dressed in judicial robes with the mark of a gunshot through the forehead ("one got into Chancery"). Armstrong confirms the death, and Lombard appears confounded when he discovers that his gun has now been returned to his room. That night, Blore hears someone sneaking out of the house and catches a glimpse of someone in the moonlight. Realizing Armstrong is missing, Blore, Vera and Lombard decide that he must be the killer. The next morning the three try to signal the mainland and remain in the relative safety of the beach. However Blore eventually goes to the house for food, and is later found under Vera's bedroom window, his skull crushed by a heavy bear-shaped clock ("a big bear hugged one"), and shortly afterwards, shocking Lombard and Vera, the corpse of Armstrong washes ashore — his absence now appears to have been designed to mislead everyone as to the identity of the true killer ("a red herring swallowed one").

Vera and Lombard, the last two survivors, both now believe each other to be the killer, shock and panic overcoming reason. She persuades Lombard to help her drag Armstrong's body away from the tideline, as a pretext to get hold of his gun, which she does. When Lombard makes a sudden move towards her, she fires, managing to shoot him through the heart, killing him instantly (an early version of the rhyme "Ten Little Injuns" contained the verse "One shot the other and then there was One"). She returns, relieved, to the house, which she notes does not "feel like an empty house", decides she is not hungry and ascends to her room. There, in a dreamlike disoriented state after shooting Lombard, she finds a hanging noose and chair arranged beneath it in her room. Feeling the presences of Cyril, the boy she allowed to drown, as well as that of her former lover, Hugo, she places the noose around her neck and kicks away the chair ("he went and hanged himself, and then there were none").[9]

In an epilogue, the investigating police officer discusses the mystery with his Assistant Commissioner at Scotland Yard. There are no clues as to the owner, nor from any of the visitors' diaries (which broadly agree about the sequence of events on the island up to the final day). However the situation they find apparently contradicts any theory they can suggest - the chair Vera kicked away is found neatly set against the wall, Lombard's revolver was not found on or near his person, Armstrong's body has been dragged above where any tide could have taken it, it is inconceivable that Blore could or would have dropped the clock on himself, and the inclement weather combined with the distance from the mainland would have prevented anyone else from entering or exiting the island before the first boats arrived after the weekend. The novel proper ends with the investigators thoroughly confounded by the apparently impossible situation they must unravel.
Postscript by the killer
In a postscript, a fishing ship picks up a bottle (containing a written confession) inside its trawling nets, which explains the events, but has been left to chance whether it will be discovered. It is signed by Justice Wargrave, who states he has, since childhood, relished causing suffering, but in adulthood he determined that such pain be meted out onlt to the guilty. Having learned he was terminally ill with a relatively short time to live, he decided to commit murder himself, locating ten individuals who had knowingly or intentionally caused the death(s) of others but escaped earthly justice. He lured nine of them to the island he had purchased with the help of Isaac Morris, and pretended to be a tenth visitor like them. Experienced in observation, he confirmed all were guilty by their reactions to the phonograph recording. His tenth killer (and first chronological victim) was his sole go-between and contact, Morris, who had been responsible for the death of the daughter of Wargrave's friends from a drug overdose. Morris, a hypochondriac, constantly complained of maladies, both real and imagined. For this reason, he accepted a cocktail of medicines given to him by the judge, who promised they would cure his upsets, and which, of course, proved fatal.

Wargrave first killed those he considered less culpable, saving the "prolonged mental strain and fear" for the more cold-blooded perpetrators, slipping poisons into the drinks of Marston (whom he felt was amoral) and Mrs Rogers (who acted largely under the influence of her domineering husband). After bludgeoning General Macarthur and Rogers, the butler, the judge used the remaining chloral hydrate as a sedative in Miss Brent's coffee before injecting her with cyanide when she was left alone in the kitchen, using one of Dr Armstrong's hypodermics. He then played upon Armstrong, who trusted the judge, whom he persuaded to go along with a plan whereby the judge would fake being shot dead, but would, actually, remain alive and thus be able to investigate who was the "real killer". After Wargrave's "death" was "confirmed" by Armstrong, the judge met with his dupe secretly that night along the rocks overlooking the sea and pushed him to his death, at a location where the body would wash ashore with the tide. After dropping the clock on Blore, he correctly surmised that Vera and Lombard would turn on each other but that she would be more than a worthy opponent and manage to turn the tables on the latter. At which point he placed the noose and chair in her room as a "psychological experiment" – which, combined with her "hypnotic" posttraumatic state from shooting Lombard, he (again correctly) anticipated would lead her to hang herself.

After her death, Wargrave describes how he returned the chair back against the wall, and wrote his confession, admitting a "pitiful human need" for recognition, which he will throw into the sea in a bottle before shooting himself. He states that he will fasten a rubber cord to Lombard's gun, using a handkerchief to prevent leaving any of his own fingerprints. If this plan works as intended, the gun will recoil after firing the fatal shot through the forehead, leaving him exactly as described in the others' diaries, with the gun fallen far from his own hand. The cloth on the floor should "not attract any attention", he notes. He concludes that when the police arrive, "they will find ten dead bodies – and an unsolved mystery – on Soldier Island".

Wargrave points out three clues by which the police could perhaps identify him as the killer, but surmises correctly that the police will not figure them out:

Wargrave was the only "innocent" guest, since the man he sentenced to death - despite strong public belief in his innocence - was found after his execution to have been unquestionably guilty of the crime for which he was hanged. Therefore paradoxically he had to be "the" murderer;
The "red herring" line in the poem suggests that Armstrong was tricked into his death, and the elderly judge would have been the person most likely for Armstrong to trust;
The gunshot wound on Wargrave's forehead would appear similar to the mark God placed upon Cain in the Bible as a sign after he killed his brother Abel.
Characters
The following details of the characters are based on the original novel. Backstories, backgrounds and names vary with differing international adaptations, based on the rules, censorship, cultural norms, etc.

Anthony James Marston killed two young children (John and Lucy Combes) while driving recklessly, for which he felt no real remorse nor did he accept any personal responsibility, complaining only that his driving license had been suspended as a result. He was the first island victim, poisoned with potassium cyanide slipped into his drink while the guests were listening to the fateful gramophone recording.
Mrs Ethel Rogers, the cook/housekeeper and Thomas Rogers' wife, described as pale and ghostlike woman with shifty light eyes. She was dominated by her bullying husband, who withheld their former employer (an elderly spinster, Miss Jennifer Brady)'s medicine to collect an inheritance they knew she had left them in her will. Mrs Rogers was haunted by the crime for the rest of her life, and was Owen's second victim, dying in her sleep peacefully from an overdose of chloral hydrate.
General John Gordon Macarthur, a retired World War I war hero, who sent his late wife's lover (a younger officer, Arthur Richmond) to his death by assigning him to a mission where it was practically guaranteed he would not survive. Leslie Macarthur had mistakenly put the wrong letters in the envelopes on one occasion when she wrote to both men at the same time. The general fatalistically accepts that no one will leave the island alive, which he tells Vera Claythorne. Shortly thereafter, he is bludgeoned while sitting along the shore.
Thomas Rogers, the butler and Ethel Rogers' husband. He dominated his weak-willed wife and they killed their former elderly employer by withholding her medicine, causing the woman to die from heart failure and inheriting the money she bequeathed them in her will. He was struck in the head with an axe as he cut firewood in the woodshed.
Emily Caroline Brent, a rigid, repressed elderly spinster holding harsh moralistic principles. She accepted the vacation on Soldier Island largely due to financial constraints. Years earlier, she had dismissed her young maid, Beatrice Taylor, for becoming pregnant out of wedlock. Beatrice, who had already been rejected by her parents for the same reason, drowned herself in a river, which Miss Brent considered an even worse sin. She refuses to discuss the matter with the gentlemen, but later confides what happened to Vera Claythorne, who tells the others shortly before Miss Brent is found dead herself. Having been sedated with chloral hydrate in her coffee, leaving her disoriented, she was left alone in the kitchen and injected in the neck with potassium cyanide with one of Dr Armstrong's hypodermic syringes (the "bee sting"). Right before her own murder, due to the chloral hydrate she has ingested, she has a lurid daydream about Beatrice and imagines hearing the girl's footsteps (they are actually the footsteps of the murderer).
Dr Edward George Armstrong, a Harley Street doctor, responsible for the death of a patient, Louisa Mary Clees, after he operated on her while drunk, many years earlier. Armstrong foolishly trusts Wargrave, and, while rendezvousing with the judge on a rocky cliff, is pushed into the sea and drowns. His body goes missing for a while, leading the others to believe he is the killer, but his corpse washes ashore expeditiously at the end of the novel, leading to the climax.
William Henry Blore, a retired police inspector and now a private investigator, accused of falsifying his testimony in court for a bribe from a criminal gang too dangerous to double-cross, which resulted in an innocent man, James Landor, being convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment. Landor died in prison. Blore arrives using the alias "Davis" and claiming to have arrived from South Africa, as he was instructed to do by Isaac Morris, who hired him for "security" work, but is confronted about his true name which was revealed on the gramophone recording, and he acknowledges his true identity. He denies the accusation against him from the gramophone recording but later privately admits the truth to Lombard. His skull was crushed by a bear-shaped clock dropped from Vera's bedroom window onto the terrace below.
Philip Lombard, a soldier of fortune. Literally down to his last square meal, he comes to the island with a loaded revolver, as suggested by Isaac Morris. Lombard is accused of causing the deaths East African tribesmen after he stole their food, leaving them to starve. He, along with Marston, are the only guests to openly and immediately confirm that the accusations against them are true; neither feels remorse. Lombard fulfilled the ninth referenced verse of the rhyme, shot to death on the beach by Vera, who believed him to be the murderer.
Vera Elizabeth Claythorne, a cool, efficient, resourceful former teacher and governess, who has taken mostly secretarial jobs since her last job as a governess ended in the death of her charge, Cyril Hamilton, whom she intentionally allowed to swim out to sea – as the child had wanted to do but had theretofore been denied as too dangerous – and drown. She did this so her lover, Cyril's uncle Hugo Hamilton, could become the family heir, inherit the estate and marry her, which had been their original plan before Cyril's birth changed things. She swam out to sea to "save" Cyril to make it seem he had disobeyed her – as she had consistently told him it was too dangerous – but knowing she would not arrive in time. Hugo, however, who loved his nephew, abandoned her after he somehow realised what she had done. After shooting Lombard in what she believed was self-defense, she returns to the house, relieved she has survived. When she goes to her room, she finds a readied noose, complete with chair beneath it, suspended from a hook hanging from the ceiling. In a post-traumatic state, she adjusts the noose round her neck and kicks the chair away, apparently fulfilling the rhyme's final verse ("One little Soldier Boy left all alone; He went out and hanged himself and then there were none").
Justice Lawrence John Wargrave, a retired judge, known as a "hanging judge" for liberally awarding the death penalty in different murder cases, and is revealed at the end to be the killer on the island. Finding himself with only a short time to live, he creates a game in which, as island owner "U. N. Owen" (a homonym of "Unknown") he entices various murders who have escaped justice, to a secret location, in order to be a murderer himself, and to kill them in a way that would leave an almost-unsolvable murder mystery. In the story proper, he appears to be one of the ten visitors, and is accused in turn on the gramophone recording, of judicial murder as a result of giving biased summation and jury directions leading to a hanging which was widely believed at the time to be a deliberate miscarriage of justice on his part. Wargrave fakes his own death as the sixth murder on the island, with Armstrong's help, creating an enormous red herring that fools everyone, and then kills Armstrong once the doctor's verdict of his death is accepted by the other visitors. After Vera Claythorne's death, Wargrave rearranges some furniture in the house, writes his confession which he throws in the sea, and shoots himself in accordance with the others' diaries, using a rubber cord to throw the gun far from him, ensuring that his death will match their descriptions.
Sir Thomas Legge and Inspector Maine, two detectives who discuss the case in the epilogue of the book, but are unable to solve the mystery.
Isaac Morris, a lawyer hired by "Mr Owen" (Wargrave) to purchase the island on his behalf, and who is deceased before the story begins. He told the locals to ignore distress signals for a week. He also arranged for the financially desperate Lombard to come to the island armed, and to meet "Mr Owen" for a later payment of 100 guineas (105 GBP). Like the guests on the island, Morris is responsible for someone's death. Through his narcotics dealings, he caused the addiction and suicide of a young woman, who just happened to be the daughter of friends of Justice Wargrave. The detectives discuss the death of Morris, from an overdose of medication, as does Wargrave's confession. Manipulated by his hypochondria, and to help with his "gastric juices", Morris trusted "Mr Owen" sufficiently to accept the latter's lethal cocktail of pills, assured they would improve his health. Morris is actually the first victim chronologically, dying before Marston.
Fred Narracott, the boatman who delivered the guests to the island. After doing so he does not appear again in the story, although Inspector Maine notes it was Narracott who, sensing something seriously amiss, returned to the island as soon as the weather allowed, before he was supposed to, and found the bodies.
Ten little Indian Boys went out to dine;
One choked his little self and then there were nine.

Nine little Indian Boys sat up very late;
One overslept himself and then there were eight.

Eight little Indian Boys travelling in Devon;
One said he'd stay there and then there were seven.

Seven little Indian Boys chopping up sticks;
One chopped himself in halves and then there were six.

Six little Indian Boys playing with a hive;
A bumblebee stung one and then there were five.

Five little Indian Boys going in for law;
One got in Chancery and then there were four.

Four little Indian Boys going out to sea;
A red herring swallowed one and then there were three.

Three little Indian Boys walking in the zoo;
A big bear hugged one and then there were two.

Two little Indian Boys sitting in the sun;
One got frizzled up and then there was one.

One little Indian Boy left all alone;
He went out and hanged himself and then there were none.
Many other reviews were also complimentary; in The New York Times Book Review (25 February 1940), Isaac Anderson detailed the set-up of the plot up to the point where "the voice" accuses the ten "guests" of their past crimes or sins, which have all resulted in the deaths of other human beings, and then said, "When you read what happens after that you will not believe it, but you will keep on reading, and as one incredible event is followed by another even more incredible you will still keep on reading. The whole thing is utterly impossible and utterly fascinating. It is the most baffling mystery that Agatha Christie has ever written, and if any other writer has ever surpassed it for sheer puzzlement the name escapes our memory. We are referring, of course, to mysteries that have logical explanations, as this one has. It is a tall story, to be sure, but it could have happened."
Such was the quality of Christie's work on this book that many compared it to her 1926 novel The Murder of Roger Ackroyd. For instance, an unnamed reviewer in the Toronto Daily Star of 16 March 1940 said, "Others have written better mysteries than Agatha Christie, but no one can touch her for ingenious plot and surprise ending. With And Then There Were None ... she is at her most ingenious and most surprising... is, indeed, considerably above the standard of her last few works and close to the Roger Ackroyd level."[20]

Other critics laud the use of plot twists and surprise endings. Maurice Richardson wrote a rhapsodic review in The Observer's issue of 5 November 1939 which began, "No wonder Agatha Christie's latest has sent her publishers into a vatic trance. We will refrain, however, from any invidious comparisons with Roger Ackroyd and be content with saying that Ten Little Niggers is one of the very best, most genuinely bewildering Christies yet written. We will also have to refrain from reviewing it thoroughly, as it is so full of shocks that even the mildest revelation would spoil some surprise from somebody, and I am sure that you would rather have your entertainment kept fresh than criticism pure." After stating the set-up of the plot, Richardson concluded, "Story telling and characterisation are right at the top of Mrs Christie's baleful form. Her plot may be highly artificial, but it is neat, brilliantly cunning, soundly constructed, and free from any of those red-herring false trails which sometimes disfigure her work."
This is the story that made Agatha Christie the best-selling novelist of all time and is read the world over in more than 50 languages. “It was so difficult to do,” she writes, “that the idea had fascinated me.” It was an idea which is now the basis for many Hollywood horror films and has become a cliché to modern audiences, but it was Agatha Christie who was the first to do it and so successfully that the story has become her most adapted piece.
Christie began the adaptations, determined to challenge herself further by moving the story to the stage. It was performed in 1943 under the book’s original UK title, Ten Little Niggers, and changed the ending as both she and the producers were concerned about leaving the audience on a low note. More recently in 2005, Kevin Elyot, screenwriter for many of the Poirot and Marple episodes, wrote a new version of the play, restoring the original ending of the novel and using the US title.
The first adaptation for cinema was in 1945 with René Clair’s seminal film.  This escalated Christie’s stories to a whole new level and paved the way for an influx of adaptations, some of which Christie approved of and some which were made without her permission. 1949 saw And Then There Were None (again adapted under its original UK title) broadcast on the BBC, making it the first of Christie’s novels to appear on TV. Another British channel, ITV, produced their own version in 1959 and an American TV version was also made. Subsequent adaptations include the 1965 film by George Pollock (famed for the Margaret Rutherford Marple films) and the 1974 version by Peter Welbeck, the first to be made in colour.
The Hindi film Gumnaan in 1965 added Bollywood touches, including music and comedy, to the plot but was an unlicensed production which Christie had not approved. Similarly, a West German adaptation, Zehn kleine Negerlein, was directed by Hans Quest in 1969. In 1970 the story appeared on French TV and there was even a 1981 six-part adaptation made in Cuba. 1987 saw a Russian version titled Desyat' negrityat; this was rare in its use of the novel’s original ending. 1989 saw another US film, Ten Little Indians, directed by Alan Birkinshaw.

The story has also inspired many parodies including the spoof Murder by Death (1976), which starred Sir Alec Guinness, Maggie Smith and Truman Capote among others, and even an episode of US cartoon Family Guy, titled And Then There Were Fewer (2010).

It was made into a PC game in 2005 by The Adventure Company, the first in a series of Agatha Christie games. The identity of the killer was changed and it was ported to Wii in 2008. In 2009 HarperCollins, Christie’s long-standing publishers, released a graphic novel adaptation and in 2010 BBC Radio 4 produced a full-cast 90 minute dramatisation.

‘One of the most ingenious thrillers in many a day.’
