Think back to the candle problem again. The incentivized participants performed worse
than their counterparts because they were so focused on the prize that they failed to
glimpse a novel solution on the periphery. Rewards, we’ve seen, can limit the breadth of
our thinking. But extrinsic motivators—especially tangible, “if-then” ones—can also
reduce the depth of our thinking. They can focus our sights on only what’s immediately
before us rather than what’s off in the distance.
Many times a concentrated focus makes sense. If your office building is on fire, you want
to find an exit immediately rather than ponder how to rewrite the zoning regulations. But
in less dramatic circumstances, fixating on an immediate reward can damage
performance over time. Indeed, what our earlier examples—unethical actions and
addictive behavior—have in common, perhaps more than anything else, is that they’re
entirely short-term. Addicts want the quick fix regardless of the eventual harm. Cheaters
want the quick win—regardless of the lasting consequences.
Yet even when the behavior doesn’t devolve into shortcuts or addiction, the near-term
allure of rewards can be harmful in the long run. Consider publicly held companies.
Many such companies have existed for decades and hope to exist for decades more. But
much of what their executives and middle managers do each day is aimed singlemindedly
at the corporation’s performance over the next three months. At these
companies, quarterly earnings are an obsession. Executives devote substantial resources
to making sure the earnings come out just right. And they spend considerable time and
brain-power offering guidance to stock analysts so that the market knows what to expect
and therefore responds favorably. This laser focus on a narrow, near-term slice of
corporate performance is understandable. It’s a rational response to stock markets that
reward or punish tiny blips in those numbers, which, in turn, affect executives’
compensation.
But companies pay a steep price for not extending their gaze beyond the next quarter.
Several researchers have found that companies that spend the most time offering
guidance on quarterly earnings deliver significantly lower long-term growth rates than
companies that offer guidance less frequently. (One reason: The earnings-obsessed
companies typically invest less in research and development.)23 They successfully
achieve their short-term goals, but threaten the health of the company two or three years
hence. As the scholars who warned about goals gone wild put it, “The very presence of
goals may lead employees to focus myopically on short-term gains and to lose sight of
the potential devastating long-term effects on the organization.”24
Perhaps nowhere is this clearer than in the economic calamity that gripped the world
economy in 2008 and 2009. Each player in the system focused only on the short-term
reward—the buyer who wanted a house, the mortgage broker who wanted a commission,
the Wall Street trader who wanted new securities to sell, the politician who wanted a
buoyant economy during reelection—and ignored the long-term effects of their actions
on themselves or others. When the music stopped, the entire system nearly collapsed.
This is the nature of economic bubbles: What seems to be irrational exuberance is
ultimately a bad case of extrinsically motivated myopia.
By contrast, the elements of genuine motivation that we’ll explore later, by their very
nature, defy a short-term view. Take mastery. The objective itself is inherently long-term
because complete mastery, in a sense, is unattainable. Even Roger Federer, for instance,
will never fully “master” the game of tennis. But introducing an “if-then” reward to help
develop mastery usually backfires. That’s why schoolchildren who are paid to solve
problems typically choose easier problems and therefore learn less.25 The short-term prize
crowds out the l ong-term learning.
In environments where extrinsic rewards are most salient, many people work only to the
point that triggers the reward—and no further. So if students get a prize for reading three
books, many won’t pick up a fourth, let alone embark on a lifetime of reading—just as
executives who hit their quarterly numbers often won’t boost earnings a penny more, let
alone contemplate the long-term health of their company. Likewise, several studies show
that paying people to exercise, stop smoking, or take their medicines produces terrific
results at first—but the healthy behavior disappears once the incentives are removed.
However, when contingent rewards aren’t involved, or when incentives are used with the
proper deftness, performance improves and understanding deepens. Greatness and
nearsightedness are incompatible. Meaningful achievement depends on lifting one’s
sights and pushing toward the horizon.
CARROTS AND STICKS: The Seven Deadly Flaws
1. They can extinguish intrinsic motivation.
2. They can diminish performance.
3. They can crush creativity.
4. They can crowd out good behavior.
5. They can encourage cheating, shortcuts, and unethical behavior.
6. They can become addictive.
7. They can foster short-term thinking.
CHAPTER 2A
. . . and the Special Circumstances When They Do
Carrots and sticks aren’t all bad. If they were, Motivation 2.0 would never have
flourished so long or accomplished so much. While an operating system centered around
rewards and punishments has outlived its usefulness and badly needs an upgrade, that
doesn’t mean we should scrap its every piece. Indeed, doing so would run counter to the
science. The scholars exploring human motivation have revealed not only the many
glitches in the traditional approach, but also the narrow band of circumstances in which
carrots and sticks do their jobs reasonably well.
The starting point, of course, is to ensure that the baseline rewards—wages, salaries,
benefits, and so on—are adequate and fair. Without a healthy baseline, motivation of any
sort is difficult and often impossible.
But once that’s established, there are circumstances where it’s okay to fall back on
extrinsic motivators. To understand what those circumstances are, let’s return to the
candle problem. In his study, Sam Glucksberg found that the participants who were
offered a cash prize took longer to solve the problem than those working in a reward-free
environment. The reason, you’ll recall, is that the prospect of a prize narrowed
participants’ focus and limited their ability to see an inventive, nonobvious solution.
In the same experiment, Glucksberg presented a separate set of participants with a
slightly different version of the problem. Once again, he told half of them he was timing
their performance to collect data—and the other half that those who posted the fastest
times could win cash. But he altered things just a bit. Instead of giving participants a box
full of tacks, he emptied the tacks onto the desk as shown below.
The candle problem presented differently.
Can you guess what happened?
This time, the participants vying for the reward solved the problem faster than their
counterparts. Why? By removing the tacks and displaying the empty box, Glucksberg
essentially revealed the solution. He transformed a challenging right-brain task into a
routine left-brain one. Since participants simply had to race down an obvious path, the
carrot waiting for them at the finish line encouraged them to gallop faster.
Glucksberg’s experiment provides the first question you should ask when contemplating
external motivators: Is the task at hand routine? That is, does accomplishing it require
following a prescribed set of rules to a specified end?
For routine tasks, which aren’t very interesting and don’t demand much creative thinking,
rewards can provide a small motivational booster shot without the harmful side effects. In
some ways, that’s just common sense. As Edward Deci, Richard Ryan, and Richard
Koestner explain, “Rewards do not undermine people’s intrinsic 
motivation for dull tasks
because there is little or no intrinsic motivation to be undermined.”1 Likewise, when Dan
Ariely and his colleagues conducted their Madurai, India, performance study with a
group of MIT students, they found that when the task called for “even rudimentary
cognitive skill,” a larger reward “led to poorer performance.” But “as long as the task
involved only mechanical skill, bonuses worked as they would be expected: the higher
the pay, the better the performance.”2
This is extremely important. Although advanced economies now revolve less around
those algorithmic, rule-based functions, some of what we do each day—especially on the
job—still isn’t all that interesting. We have TPS reports to fill out and boring e-mail to
answer and all manner of drudge work that doesn’t necessarily fire our soul. What’s
more, for some people, much of what they do all day consists of these routine, not
terribly captivating, tasks. In these situations, it’s best to try to unleash the positive side
of the Sawyer Effect by attempting to turn work into play—to increase the task’s variety,
to make it more like a game, or to use it to help master other skills. Alas, that’s not
always possible. And this means that sometimes, even “if-then” rewards are an option.
Let’s put this insight about rewards and routines into practice. Suppose you’re a manager
at a small nonprofit organization. Your design team created a terrific poster promoting
your group’s next big event. And now you need to send the poster to twenty thousand
members of your organization. Since the costs of outsourcing the job to a professional
mailing firm are too steep for your budget, you decide to do the work in-house. Trouble
is, the posters came back from the printer much later than you expected and they need to
get in the mail this weekend.
What’s the best way to enlist your staff of ten, and maybe a few others, in a massive
weekend poster mailing session? The task is the very definition of routine: The people
participating must roll up the posters, slide them into the mailing tubes, cap those tubes,
and apply a mailing label and the proper postage. Four steps—none of them notably
interesting.
One managerial option is coercion. If you’re the boss, you could force people to spend
their Saturday and Sunday on this mind-numbing project. They might comply, but the
damage to their morale and long-term commitment could be substantial. Another option
is to ask for volunteers. But face it: Most people can think of far better ways to spend a
weekend.
So in this case, an “if-then” reward might be effective. For instance, you could promise a
big office-wide party if everybody pitches in on the project. You could offer a gift
certificate to everyone who participates. Or you could go further and pay people a small
sum for every poster they insert, enclose, and send—in the hope that the piecework fee
will boost their productivity.
While such tangible, contingent rewards can often undermine intrinsic motivation and
creativity, those drawbacks matter less here. The assignment neither inspires deep
passion nor requires deep thinking. Carrots, in this case, won’t hurt and might help. And
you’ll increase your chances of success by supplementing the poster-packing rewards
with three important practices:
• Offer a rationale for why the task is necessary.A job that’s not inherently interesting
can become more meaningful, and therefore more engaging, if it’s part of a larger
purpose. Explain why this poster is so important and why sending it out now is critical to
your organization’s mission.
• Acknowledge that the task is boring.This is an act of empathy, of course. And the
acknowledgment will help people understand why this is the rare instance when “if-then”
rewards are part of how your organization operates.
• Allow people to complete the task their own way. Think autonomy, not control. State
the outcome you need. But instead of specifying precisely the way to reach it—how each
poster must be rolled and how each mailing label must be affixed—give them freedom
over how they do the job.
That’s the approach for routine tasks. What about for other sorts of undertakings?
For work that requires more than just climbing, rung by rung, up a ladder of instructions,
rewards are more perilous. The best way to avoid the seven deadly flaws of extrinsic
motivators is to avoid them altogether or to downplay them significantly and instead
emphasize the elements of deeper motivation—autonomy, mastery, and purpose—that
we’ll explore later in the book. But in the workplace, a rigid adherence to this approach
bumps up against a fact of life: Even people who do groovy, creative, right-brain work
still want to be paid. And here Teresa Amabile has shed some light on how to use
rewards in a way that reckons with life’s realities but reduces extrinsic motivators’
hidden costs.
Go back to the study in which Amabile and two colleagues compared the quality of
commissioned and noncommissioned paintings from a group of artists. A panel of
experts, blind to what the investigators were exploring, consistently rated the
noncommissioned artwork as more creative. One reason is that several artists said their
commissions were “constraining”—that they found themselves working toward a goal
they didn’t endorse in a manner they didn’t control. However, in the same study, Amabile
also discovered that when the artists considered their commissions “enabling”—that is,
“the commission enabled the artist to do something interesting or exciting”3—the
creativity ranking of what they produced shot back up. The same was true for
commissions the artists felt provided them with useful information and feedback about
their ability.
This is a crucial research insight. The science shows that it is possible—though tricky—
to incorporate rewards into nonroutine, more creative settings without causing a cascade
of damage.
So suppose we’re back at your nonprofit nine months later. The mailing went out
flawlessly. The poster was a hit. The event was a smash. You’re planning another for
later this year. You’ve settled on the date and found your venue. Now you need an
inspiring poster to captivate imaginations and draw a crowd.
What should you do?
Here’s what you shouldn’t do: Offer an “if-then” reward to the design staff. Do not stride
into their offices and announce: “If you come up with a poster that rocks my world or that
boosts attendance over last year, then you’ll get a ten-percent bonus.” Although that
motivational approach is common in organizations all over the world, it’s a recipe for
reduced performance. Creating a poster isn’t routine. It requires conceptual,
breakthrough, artistic thinking. And as we’ve learned, “if-then” rewards are an ideal way
to squash this sort of thinking.
Your best approach is to have already established the conditions of a genuinely
motivating environment. The baseline rewards must be sufficient. That is, the team’s
basic compensation must be adequate and fair—particularly compared with people doing
similar work for similar organizations. Your nonprofit must be a congenial place to work.
And the people on your team must have autonomy, they must have ample opportunity to
pursue mastery, and their daily duties must relate to a larger purpose. If these elements
are in place, the best strategy is to provide a sense of urgency and significance—and then
get out of the talent’s way.
But you may still be able to boost performance a bit—more for future tasks than for this
one—through the delicate use of rewards. Just be careful. Your efforts will backfire
unless the rewards you offer meet one essential requirement. And you’ll be on firmer
motivational footing if you follow two additional principles.
The essential requirement: Any extrinsic reward should be unexpected and offered only
after the task is complete.
Holding out a prize at the beginning of a project—and offering it as a contingency—will
inevitably focus people’s attention on obtaining the reward rather than on attacking the
problem. But introducing the subject of rewards after the job is done is less risky.
In other words, where “if-then” rewards are a mistake, shift to “now that” rewards—as
in “Now that you’ve finished the poster and it turned out so well, I’d like to celebrate by
taking you out to lunch.”
As Deci and his colleagues explain, “If tangible rewards are given unexpectedly to people
after they have finished a task, the rewards are less likely to be experienced as the reason
for doing the task and are thus less likely to be detrimental to intrinsic motivation.”4
Likewise, Amabile has found in some studies “that the highest levels of creativity were
produced by subjects who received a reward as a kind of a bonus.”5 So when the poster
turns out great, you could buy the design team a case of beer or even hand them a cash
bonus without snuffing their creativity. The team didn’t expect any extras and getting
them didn’t hinge on a particular outcome. You’re simply offering your appreciation for
their stellar work. But keep in mind one ginormous caveat: Repeated “now that” bonuses
can quickly become expected “if-then” entitlements—which can ultimately crater
effective performance.
At this point, by limiting rewards for nonroutine, creative work to the unexpected, “now
that” variety, you’re in less dangerous waters. But you’ll do even better if you follow two
more guidelines.
First, consider nontangible rewards. Praise and positive feedback are much less corrosive
than cash and trophies. In fact, in Deci’s original experiments, and in his subsequent
analysis of other studies, he found that “positive feedback can have an enhancing effect
on intrinsic motivation.”6 So if the folks on the design team turn out a show-stopping
poster, maybe just walk into their offices and say, “Wow. You really did an amazing job
on that poster. It’s going to have a huge impact on getting people to come to this event.
Thank you.” It sounds small and simple, but it can have an enormous effect.
Second, provide useful information. Amabile has found that while controlling extrinsic
motivators can clobber creativity, “informational or enabling motivators can be
conducive” to it.7 In the workplace, people are thirsting to learn about how they’re doing,
but only if the information isn’t a tacit effort to manipulate their behavior. So don’t tell
the design team: “That poster was perfect. You did it exactly the way I asked.” Instead,
give people meaningful information about their work. The more feedback focuses on
specifics (“great use of color”)—and the more the praise is about effort and strategy
rather than about achieving a particular outcome—the more effective it can be.
In brief, for creative, right-brain, heuristic tasks, you’re on shaky ground offering “ifthen”
rewards. You’re better off using “now that” rewards. And you’re best off if your
“now that” rewards provide praise, feedback, and useful information.
(For a visual depiction of this approach, see the flowchart on the next page.)
When to Use Rewards: A Simple Flowchart
CHAPTER 3
Type I and Type X
Rochester, New York, is an unlikely epicenter for a social earthquake. The companies
that built this stolid city, just sixty-two miles from the Canadian border, were titans of the
industrial economy. Eastman Kodak made film. Western Union delivered telegrams.
Xerox produced photocopiers. And they piloted their enterprises by the precepts of
Motivation 2.0: If you offer people steady employment and carefully calibrated rewards,
they’ll do what executives and shareholders want, and everyone will prosper.
But starting in the 1970s, on the campus of the University of Rochester, a motivational
revolution was brewing. It began in 1971, when Edward Deci, fresh from his Soma
puzzle experiments, arrived on campus for a joint appointment in the psychology
department and the business school. It intensified in 1973, when the business school
unceremoniously booted Deci because of his heretical findings about rewards, and the
psychology department hired him full-time. It gathered more steam in 1975, when Deci
published a book called Intrinsic Motivation. And it launched in earnest in 1977, when a
student named Richard Ryan showed up for graduate school.
Ryan, a philosophy major in college, had just missed being drafted into the military.
Nursing a bit of survivor’s guilt, he’d been working with Vietnam War veterans suffering
from post-traumatic stress disorder. And he’d come to the University of Rochester to
learn how to become a better clinician. One day, in a seminar, a professor brought up the
subject of intrinsic motivation—and then denounced it with table-pounding ferocity. “I
figured that if there was that much resistance, this must be something interesting,” Ryan
told me. He picked up a copy of Deci’s book, found it compelling, and asked its author to
lunch. So commenced a remarkable research collaboration that continues to this day.
When I met them not long ago, in U of R’s blocky Meliora Hall, the two were a study in
both contrast and similarity. Deci is tall and reedy, with a pale complexion and thin,
wispy hair. He speaks in a quiet, soothing voice that reminded me of the late American
children’s television host Mr. Rogers. Ryan, who has straight white hair parted down the
middle, is ruddier and more intense. He presses his point like a skilled litigator. Deci,
meanwhile, waits patiently for you to reach his point—then he agrees with you and
praises your insight. Deci is the classical music station on your FM dial; Ryan is more
cable TV. And yet they talk to each other in a cryptic academic shorthand, their ideas
smoothly in sync. The combination has been powerful enough to make them among the
most influential behavioral scientists of their generation.
Together Deci and Ryan have fashioned what they call “self-determination theory.”
Many theories of behavior pivot around a particular human tendency: We’re keen
responders to positive and negative reinforcements, or zippy calculators of our selfinterest,
or lumpy duffel bags of psychosexual conflicts. SDT, by contrast, begins with a
notion of universal human needs. It argues that we have three innate psychological
needs—competence, autonomy, and relatedness. When those needs are satisfied, we’re
motivated, productive, and happy. When they’re thwarted, our motivation, productivity,
and happiness plummet.1 “If there’s anything [fundamental] about our nature, it’s the
capacity for interest. Some things facilitate it. Some things undermine it,” Ryan explained
during one of our conversations. Put another way, we’ve all got that third drive. It’s part
of what it means to be human. But whether that aspect of our humanity emerges in our
lives depends on whether the conditions around us support it.
And the main mechanisms of Motivation 2.0 are more stifling than supportive. “This is a
really big thing in management,” says Ryan. When people aren’t producing, companies
typically resort to rewards or punishment. “What you haven’t done is the hard work of
diagnosing what the problem is. You’re trying to run over the problem with a carrot or a
stick,” Ryan explains. That doesn’t mean that SDT unequivocally opposes rewards. “Of
course, they’re necessary in workplaces and other settings,” says Deci. “But the less
salient they are made, the better. When people use rewards to motivate, that’s when
they’re most demotivating.” Instead, Deci and Ryan say we should focus our efforts on
creating environments for our innate psychological needs to flourish.
Over the last thirty years, through both their scholarship and mentorship, Deci and Ryan
have established a network of several dozen SDT scholars conducting research in the
United States, Canada, Israel, Singapore, and throughout Western Europe. These
scientists have explored self-determination and intrinsic motivation in laboratory
experiments and field studies that encompass just about every realm—business,
education, medicine, sports, exercise, personal productivity, environmentalism,
relationships, and physical and mental health. They have produced hundreds of research
papers, most of which point to the same conclusion. Human beings have an innate inner
drive to be autonomous, self-determined, and connected to one another. And when that
drive is liberated, people achieve more and live richer lives.
SDT is an important part of a broad swirl of new thinking about the human condition.
This constellation includes, perhaps most prominently, the positive psychology
movement, which has reoriented the study of psychological science away from its
previous focus on malady and dysfunction and toward well-being and effective
functioning. Under the leadership of the University of Pennsylvania’s Martin Seligman,
positive psychology has been minting legions of new scholars and leaving a deep imprint
on how scientists, economists, therapists, and everyday people think about human
behavior. One of positive psychology’s most influential figures is Mihaly
Csikszentmihalyi, whom I mentioned earlier. Csikszentmihalyi’s first book about “flow”
and Seligman’s first book on his theories (which argued that helplessness was learned,
rather than innate, behavior) appeared in the same year as Deci’s book on intrinsic
motivation. Clearly, something big was in the air in 1975. It’s just taken us a generation
to reckon with it.
The broad assortment of new thinkers includes Carol Dweck of Stanford University and
Harvard’s Amabile. It includes a few economists—most prominently, Roland Bénabou of
Princeton University and Bruno Frey of the University of Zurich—who are applying
some of these concepts to the dismal science. And it includes some scholars who don’t
study motivation per se—in particular, Harvard University’s Howard Gardner and Tufts
University’s Robert Sternberg—who have changed our view of intelligence and creativity
and offered a brighter view of human potential.
This collection of scholars—not in concert, not intentionally, and perhaps not even
knowing they’ve been doing so—has been creating the foundation for a new, more
effective, operating system. At long last, the times may be catching up to their work.
THE POWER OF THE ALPHABET
Words matter, of course, but so do letters. Case in point: Meyer Friedman. You’ve
probably never heard of him, but you almost certainly know his legacy. Friedman, who
died in 2001 at the ripe old age of ninety, was a cardiologist who for decades ran a
bustling office in San Francisco. In the late 1950s, he and fellow physician Ray
Rosenman began noticing similarities in their patients who were prone to heart disease. It
wasn’t only what these patients ate or what genes they inherited that affected their
susceptibility to coronary trouble. It was also how they led their lives. These patients,
Friedman noted, demonstrated:
a particular complex of personality traits, including excessive competition drive,
aggressiveness, impatience, and a harrying sense of time urgency. Individuals displaying
this pattern seem to be engaged in a chronic, ceaseless, and often fruitless struggle—with
themselves, with others, with circumstances, with time, sometimes with life itself.2
These people were significantly more likely to develop heart disease than other
patients—even those who shared similar physical attributes, exercise regimens, diets, and
family histories. Looking for a convenient and memorable way to explain this insight to
their medical colleagues and the wider world, Friedman and Rosenman found inspiration
in the alphabet. They dubbed this behavioral pattern “Type A.”
Type A behavior stood in contrast to—natch—Type B behavior. Unlike their hornhonking,
foot-tapping counterparts, who suffered from “hurry sickness,” people
displaying Type B behavior were rarely harried by life or made hostile by its demands. In
their research, Friedman and Rosenman found that Type B people were just as intelligent,
and frequently just as ambitious, as Type A’s. But they wore their ambition differently.
Writing about the Type B person (and using the male-centered language common in the
day), the cardiologists explained, “He may also have a considerable amount of ‘drive,’
but its character is such that it seems to steady him, give confidence and security to him,
rather than to goad, irritate, and infuriate, as with the Type A man.”3 One key to reducing
deaths from heart disease and improving public health, therefore, was to help Type A’s
learn to become a little more like Type B’s.
Nearly fifty years later, this nomenclature remains. The two letters help us understand a
complex web of behaviors—and guide us toward a better and more effective way to live.
Around the same time that Friedman and Rosenman were making their discovery,
another American was pushing frontiers of his own. Douglas McGregor was a
management professor at MIT who brought to the job an interesting combination of
experiences. He’d earned a Ph.D. from Harvard in psychology (rather than in economics
or engineering). And in contrast to most of his colleagues, he’d actually run an
institution. From 1948 to 1954, he was president of Antioch College.
Drawing on his understanding of the human psyche, as well as his experience as a leader,
McGregor began rethinking the conventions of modern management. He thought that the
problem with corporate leadership wasn’t so much its execution as its premises.
Beginning with a speech in 1957, and later in a groundbreaking book called The Human
Side of Enterprise in 1960, McGregor argued that those running companies were
operating from faulty assumptions about human behavior.
Most leaders believed that the people in their organizations fundamentally disliked work
and would avoid it if it they could. These faceless minions feared taking responsibility,
craved security, and badly needed direction. As a result, “most people must be coerced,
controlled, directed, and threatened with punishment to get them to put forth adequate
effort toward the achievement of organizational objectives.” But McGregor said there
was an alternative view of employees—one that offered a more accurate assessment of
the human condition and a more effective starting point for running companies. This
perspective held that taking an interest in work is “as natural as play or rest,” that
creativity and ingenuity were widely distributed in the population, and that under the
proper conditions, people will accept, and even seek, responsibility.4
To explain these contrasting outlooks, McGregor mined the back end of the alphabet. He
called the first view Theory X and the second Theory Y. If your starting point was
Theory X, he said, your managerial techniques would inevitably produce limited results,
or even go awry entirely. If you believed in the “mediocrity of the masses,” as he put it,
then mediocrity became the ceiling on what you could achieve. But if your starting point
was Theory Y, the possibilities were vast—not simply for the individual’s potential, but
for the company’s bottom line as well. The way to make business organizations work
better, therefore, was to shift management thinking away from Theory X and toward
Theory Y.
Once again, the nomenclature stuck—and McGregor’s approach soon became a staple of
management education.d A picture may be worth a thousand words—but sometimes
neither is as potent as just two letters.
So with a hoist from Meyer Friedman onto the shoulders of Douglas McGregor, I’d like
to introduce my own alphabetic way to think about human motivation.
TYPE I AND TYPE X
The Motivation 2.0 operating system depended on, and fostered, what I call Type X
behavior. Type X behavior is fueled more by extrinsic desires than intrinsic ones. It
concerns itself less with the inherent satisfaction of an activity and more with the external
rewards to which that activity leads. The Motivation 3.0 operating system—the upgrade
that’s needed to meet the new realities of how we organize, think about, and do what we
do—depends on what I call Type I behavior. Type I behavior is fueled more by intrinsic
desires than extrinsic ones. It concerns itself less with the external rewards to which an
activity leads and more with the inherent satisfaction of the activity itself. At the center of
Type X behavior is the second drive. At the center of Type I behavior is the third drive.
If we want to strengthen our organizations, get beyond our decade of underachievement,
and address the inchoate sense that something’s gone wrong in our businesses, our lives,
and our world, we need to move from Type X to Type I. (I use these two letters largely to
signify “extrinsic” and “intrinsic,” but also to pay homage to Douglas McGregor.)
To be sure, reducing human behavior to two categories sacrifices a certain amount of
nuance. And nobody exhibits purely Type X or Type I behavior every waking minute of
every living day without exception. But we do have certain, often very clear, dispositions.
You probably know what I mean. Think about yourself. Does what energizes you—what
gets you up in the morning and propels you through the day—come from the inside or
from the outside? What about your spouse, your partner, or your children? How about the
