Zhang Fei (died 221), courtesy name Yide, was a military general who served under the warlord Liu Bei in the late Eastern Han dynasty and early Three Kingdoms period. Zhang Fei and Guan Yu, who were among the earliest to join Liu Bei, shared a brotherly relationship with their lord and accompanied him on most of his early exploits. Zhang Fei fought in various battles for Liu Bei, including the Red Cliffs campaign (208–209), Liu Bei's takeover of Yi Province (212–215), and the Hanzhong Campaign (218–219). He was assassinated by his subordinates in 221 after serving for only a few months in the state of Shu Han, which was founded by Liu Bei earlier that year. Zhang Fei was from Zhuo commandery, which is in present-day Zhuozhou, Hebei. In the 180s, towards the end of the Han dynasty, he and Guan Yu became Liu Bei's followers. As Guan Yu was many years older than Zhang Fei, Zhang regarded him as an elder brother. When Liu Bei was later appointed as the Chancellor of Pingyuan (present-day Pingyuan County, Dezhou, Shandong) by the Han imperial court, Zhang Fei and Guan Yu served as "Majors of Separate Command" under him. The three of them shared a brotherly-like relationship, to the point of sharing the same room. Zhang Fei and Guan Yu also stood guard beside Liu Bei when he sat down at meetings. They followed him on his exploits and protected him from danger. In 194, Liu Bei succeeded Tao Qian as the Governor of Xu Province. The following year, he led his forces to Shiting, Huaiyin to counter an invading army sent by Yuan Shu, while leaving Zhang Fei behind to defend Xiapi (present-day Pizhou, Xuzhou, Jiangsu), the capital of Xu Province. Zhang Fei wanted to kill Cao Bao, a former officer under Tao Qian, for reasons unknown. Cao Bao fled back to his own camp and set up defences while sending a messenger to request aid from Lü Bu, another warlord who was taking shelter under Liu Bei at the time. Lü Bu led his forces to attack Xiapi and succeeded in defeating and driving away Zhang Fei. Liu Bei returned to Xu Province, which was now under Lü Bu's control, and he reluctantly accepted Lü's offer to move to Xiaopei while Lü remained in Xiapi. Tensions between Liu Bei and Lü Bu increased until the point of conflict. Liu Bei sought help from Cao Cao, a warlord who controlled the Han central government. Cao Cao and Liu Bei combined forces and defeated Lü Bu at the Battle of Xiapi in 198, after which they returned to the imperial capital Xu (present-day Xuchang, Henan) together. In Xu, Zhang Fei was appointed as a "General of the Household". In 199, Liu Bei found an excuse to leave the capital and he travelled to Xu Province, killed Che Zhou, the provincial governor appointed by Cao Cao, and seized control of the province. The following year, Cao Cao launched a campaign to take back Xu Province and defeated Liu Bei. Liu Bei fled to northern China, where he took refuge under Cao Cao's rival, Yuan Shao. Liu Bei later left Yuan Shao on the pretext of helping Yuan recruit the rebels in Runan (present-day Runan County, Zhumadian, Henan). He eventually found shelter under Liu Biao, the Governor of Jing Province. Liu Biao put him in charge of Xinye (present-day Xinye County, Nanyang, Henan), a commandery on the northern border of Jing Province. It is not known whether Zhang Fei followed Liu Bei to join Yuan Shao after Liu's defeat in Xu Province, or whether he, like Guan Yu, was separated from Liu during that period of time. Battle of Changban: In 208, following Liu Biao's death, Cao Cao started a campaign aimed at wiping out opposing forces in southern China. When his armies arrived in Jing Province, Liu Biao's younger son and successor Liu Cong surrendered. Liu Bei evacuated Xinye and headed south with his followers towards Xiakou (n present-day Wuhan, Hubei), which was controlled by Liu Biao's elder son, Liu Qi. Cao Cao sent 5,000 riders to pursue Liu Bei, and they caught up with him at Changban, Dangyang. Liu Bei abandoned his family and fled, with only Zhuge Liang, Zhang Fei, Zhao Yun and a small number of soldiers accompanying him. ang Fei led 20 horsemen to cover Liu Bei's retreat. After having a bridge destroyed, he stood guard at one end (facing the enemy), brandished his spear, glared at the enemy, and shouted, "I'm Zhang Yide. You can come forth and fight me to the death!" Cao Cao's soldiers were all afraid and did not dare to approach him. Liu Bei and his followers were hence able to retreat safely. Battle of Red Cliffs and after: In 208, Liu Bei and Sun Quan combined forces and defeated Cao Cao at the decisive Battle of Red Cliffs and the follow-up Battle of Jiangling, after which Liu took control of southern Jing Province. Zhang Fei was appointed as "General Who Attacks Barbarians", Administrator of Yidu commandery and granted the title "Marquis of Xin Village". He was later reassigned to Nan commandery (around present-day Jingzhou, Hubei). In 211, Liu Bei led an army to Yi Province (covering present-day Sichuan and Chongqing) to assist the provincial governor Liu Zhang in countering a rival warlord, Zhang Lu of Hanzhong. He left Zhang Fei and others behind to guard Jing Province in his absence. Earlier in 209, Liu Bei married Sun Quan's younger sister Lady Sun to strengthen the alliance between him and Sun Quan. Because of her brother's strong influence, Lady Sun was arrogant and she allowed her close aides to behave lawlessly. Even Liu Bei was afraid of her. When Sun Quan heard that Liu Bei had left for Yi Province, he sent a vessel to Jing Province to fetch his sister home. Lady Sun attempted to bring along Liu Bei's son Liu Shan with her, but Zhang Fei and Zhao Yun led their men to stop her and retrieve Liu Shan. Around 212, relations between Liu Bei and Liu Zhang deteriorated to the point of conflict, when Liu Bei started a campaign aimed at seizing Yi Province from Liu Zhang. Liu Bei ordered Zhuge Liang, Zhao Yun, Zhang Fei and others to lead reinforcements into Yi Province to help him, while Guan Yu remained behind to defend Jing Province. Along the way, Zhang Fei attacked Jiangzhou (around present-day Yuzhong District, Chongqing), which was defended by Yan Yan, the Administrator of Ba commandery under Liu Zhang, and captured Yan alive. Zhang Fei said to Yan Yan, "When my army showed up, why did you put up resistance instead of surrendering?" Yan Yan replied, "You people launched an unwarranted attack on my home province. There may be generals in my province who will lose their heads, but there are none who will surrender”. Zhang Fei was enraged and he ordered Yan Yan's execution. Yan Yan was expressionless, and he said, "If you want to chop off my head, then do it! What's with all that outburst of anger?" Zhang Fei was so impressed with Yan Yan's courage that he spared and released the latter and treated him like an honoured guest. Zhang Fei's army then proceeded to break through Liu Zhang's defences until they reached Chengdu (Yi Province's capital), where they rendezvoused with Liu Bei and the others. In 215, Liu Zhang surrendered and yielded Yi Province to Liu Bei. Liu Bei rewarded Zhuge Liang, Fa Zheng, Zhang Fei and Guan Yu each with 500 jin of gold, 1,000 jin of silver, 50 million coins and 1,000 rolls of silk. Zhang Fei was also appointed as the Administrator of Baxi commandery (north of present-day Dianjiang County, Chongqing). In around 216, Cao Cao attacked and defeated Zhang Lu, after which Hanzhong commandery came under Cao's control. Cao Cao left Xiahou Yuan, Zhang He and others behind to defend Hanzhong while he returned to Ye. During that time, Zhang He led his forces to attack Baxi with the aim of forcing Baxi's residents to relocate to Hanzhong. His army passed through Dangqu, Mengtou and Dangshi counties, and encountered Zhang Fei's troops. Both sides held their positions for over 50 days, after which Zhang Fei led about 10,000 elite soldiers and took an alternative route to attack Zhang He. As the mountain paths were very narrow and inaccessible, Zhang He's army was effectively divided into two because the troops at the front and the rear were unable to contact and assist each other, resulting in a victory for Zhang Fei. Zhang He and about ten of his men escaped on foot through a shortcut and retreated back to Nanzheng. Peace was restored in Baxi. In 217, Liu Bei mobilised his forces and personally led a campaign to seize control of Hanzhong from Cao Cao. He ordered Zhang Fei and Ma Chao to supervise Wu Lan, Lei Tong and Ren Kui to attack Wudu commandery, which was defended by Cao Hong. Zhang Fei attempted to trick Cao Hong into believing that they were planning to seal his retreat route, but Cao Xiu saw through the ruse, and Zhang suffered a defeat which absolved him from continuing the campaign – Lei Tong and Ren Kui were killed in action while Wu Lan fled to Yinping and was killed by a Di chieftain, Qiangduan. In 219, Liu Bei emerged victorious in the Hanzhong Campaign and proclaimed himself "King of Hanzhong". He appointed Zhang Fei as "General of the Right". Liu Bei later planned to return to Chengdu and he wanted to leave a veteran general behind to guard Hanzhong. Many people believed that Zhang Fei would receive this responsibility and even Zhang himself thought so too. However, to everyone's surprise, Liu Bei chose Wei Yan instead and appointed him as the Administrator of Hanzhong. In 221, Liu Bei declared himself emperor and founded the state of Shu Han. He promoted Zhang Fei to "General of Chariots and Cavalry" and "Director of Retainers", and awarded him the title "Marquis of Xi District". His imperial edict for Zhang Fei read: "I have received the Mandate of Heaven and inherited the noble work of my ancestors. I am obliged to restore peace and purge the Empire of chaos. As of now, there are villains and barbarians causing destruction and harm to the people, while those who miss the Han dynasty eagerly hope for its restoration. I feel distressed, I can neither rest well nor have my meals in peace. I have prepared the armies and made an oath to bring Heaven's punishment upon those evildoers. You are loyal and resolute, your deeds are comparable to those of Shao Hu, your fame spreads near and far. As such, I give you special appointments, grant you a title of nobility, and put you in charge of affairs in the capital. You are born with Heaven's might, you use virtue to win over others, and you dish out punishments to wrongdoers. I am very pleased with you. The Classic of Poetry stated: 'Not to distress the people, nor with urgency, but making them conform to the royal state. You have commenced and earnestly displayed your merit, and I will make you happy. How can I not give encouragement to you?". Earlier in late 219, Sun Quan broke his alliance with Liu Bei and sent his general Lü Meng to lead an invasion on Jing Province, which resulted in the death of Guan Yu and the loss of Jing Province. In 222, Liu Bei launched a campaign against Sun Quan to take revenge and seize back Jing Province. Zhang Fei was ordered to lead 10,000 troops from Langzhong to rendezvous with Liu Bei's main force at Jiangzhou (around present-day Yuzhong District, Chongqing). However, before departing, Zhang Fei was assassinated by his subordinates Fan Qiang and Zhang Da. They cut off Zhang Fei's head and brought it along with them when they defected to Sun Quan's side. Zhang Fei's camp commandant wrote a report to Liu Bei. When Liu Bei heard that Zhang Fei's camp commandant had sent him a report, he exclaimed, "Oh! (Zhang) Fei is dead”. In 260, Liu Bei's son and successor Liu Shan granted Zhang Fei the posthumous name "Marquis Huan". In 200 CE, Zhang Fei chanced upon Xiahou Yuan's niece while she was out gathering firewood and he took her home. She was 12 or 13 years old at the time. Zhang Fei knew that she was of good upbringing, so he married her. She bore him a daughter, who later married Liu Shan and became known as Empress Jing'ai of the state of Shu. Empress Jing'ai had a younger sister who also married Liu Shan and was known as Empress Zhang. Zhang Fei's eldest son, Zhang Bao, died at a young age. Zhang Bao's son, Zhang Zun served as an Imperial Secretary. In 263, during the Conquest of Shu by Wei, he followed Zhuge Zhan to defend Mianzhu Pass from the Wei general Deng Ai but was killed in action. Zhang Fei's second son, Zhang Shao, inherited his father's marquis title and served as a "Palace Attendant and Deputy Director in the Imperial Secretariat" in Shu. In 263, the Shu emperor Liu Shan ordered Zhang Shao, Qiao Zhou and Deng Liang to represent him when he officially surrendered to Deng Ai and brought an end to the Shu regime. After the fall of Shu, Zhang Shao accompanied Liu Shan to the Wei capital Luoyang, where he was enfeoffed as a marquis along with other former Shu officials. Guan Yu (died 219), courtesy name Yunchang, was a general serving under the warlord Liu Bei in the late Eastern Han dynasty. He played a significant role in the civil war that led to the collapse of the dynasty and the establishment of the state of Shu Han – founded by Liu Bei – in the Three Kingdoms period. As one of the best known Chinese historical figures throughout East Asia, Guan's true life stories have largely given way to fictionalised ones, most of which are found in the historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms or passed down the generations, in which his deeds and moral qualities have been lionised. Guan is respected as an epitome of loyalty and righteousness. Guan was deified as early as the Sui dynasty and is still worshipped by many Chinese people today, especially in southern China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and among many overseas Chinese communities. He is a figure in Chinese folk religion, popular Confucianism, Taoism, and Chinese Buddhism, and small shrines to Guan are almost ubiquitous in traditional Chinese shops and restaurants. He is often reverently called Guan Gong (Lord Guan) and Guan Di (Emperor Guan). His hometown Yuncheng has also named its airport after him. No descriptions of Guan Yu's physical appearance exist in historical records, but his beard was mentioned in the Sanguozhi. Traditionally, he is portrayed as a red-faced warrior with a long lush beard. The idea of his red face may have derived from a description of him in the first chapter of the Ming dynasty historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, where the following passage appears: Xuande took a glance at the man, who stood at a height of nine chi, and had a two chi long beard; his face was of the colour of a zao, with red lips; his eyes were like that of a phoenix's, and his eyebrows resembled silkworms. He had a dignified aura and looked quite majestic. Alternatively, the idea of his red face could have been borrowed from opera representation, where red faces depict loyalty and righteousness. In illustrations of Romance of the Three Kingdoms, Guan Yu is traditionally depicted wearing a green robe over his body armour. Supposedly, Guan Yu's weapon was a guan dao named Green Dragon Crescent Blade, which resembled a glaive and was said to weigh 82 catties (about 18.25 kg or 40 lbs). A wooden replica can be found today in the Emperor Guan Temple in Xiezhou County, Shanxi. However, Guan Yu's weapon was most likely not the Green Dragon Crescent Blade. The Sanguozhi mentioned that Guan Yu "stabbed" and killed Yan Liang during the Battle of Boma. Stabbing cannot be done with a guan dao, so the weapon used by Guan Yu was most probably a spear or a sword. Guan Yu was from Xie county, Hedong commanderywhich is in present-day Yuncheng, Shanxi. His original courtesy name was "Changsheng". He was very interested in the Zuo Zhuan and could fluently recite lines from the book. He fled from his hometown after committing a serious crime and arrived in Zhuo commander (present-day Zhuozhou, Hebei). When the Yellow Turban Rebellion broke out in the 180s, Guan Yu and Zhang Fei joined a volunteer militia formed by Liu Bei, and they assisted a Colonel Zou Jing in suppressing the revolt. When Liu Bei was appointed as the Chancellorof Pingyuan commandery (around present-day Dezhou, Shandong), Guan Yu and Zhang Fei were appointed as "Majors of Separate Command" and they commanded detachments of soldiers under Liu. The three of them shared a brotherly-like relationship, to the point of sharing the same room. Zhang Fei and Guan Yu also stood guard beside Liu Bei when he sat down at meetings. They followed him on his exploits and protected him from danger. Liu Bei and his men followed Cao Cao back to the imperial capital Xu (present-day Xuchang, Henan) after their victory over Lü Bu at the Battle of Xiapi in 198. About a year later, in 199, Liu Bei and his followers escaped from Xu on the pretext of helping Cao Cao lead an army to attack Yuan Shu. Liu Bei went to Xu Province, killed its Inspector, Che Zhou, and seized control of the province. He moved to Xiaopei (present-day Pei County, Xuzhou, Jiangsu) and left Guan Yu in charge of the provincial capital Xiapi (present-day Pizhou, Xuzhou, Jiangsu). In 200, Cao Cao led an eastern campaign against Liu Bei, defeated the latter in battle, and retook Xu Province. Liu Bei fled to northern China and found refuge under Cao Cao's rival Yuan Shao. Guan Yu was captured by Cao Cao's forces and brought back to Xu. Cao Cao treated Guan Yu respectfully and asked Emperor Xian to appoint Guan as a Lieutenant-General. Later that year, Yuan Shao sent his general Yan Liang to lead an army to attack Cao Cao's garrison at Boma (or Baima), which was defended by Liu Yan. Cao Cao sent Zhang Liao and Guan Yu to lead a vanguard force to resist the enemy. In the midst of battle, Guan Yu recognised Yan Liang's parasol so he charged towards the latter, decapitated him and returned with Yan's head. Yuan Shao's men were unable to stop him. The siege on Boma was lifted. On Cao Cao's recommendation, Emperor Xian conferred the title of "Marquis of Hanshou Village" on Guan Yu. Cao Cao admired Guan Yu's character, but he also sensed that Guan had no intention of serving under him for long. He told Zhang Liao, "Why don't you make use of your friendship with Guan Yu to find out his objective?" When Zhang Liao asked Guan Yu, the latter replied, "I'm aware that Lord Cao treats me very generously. However, I've also received much favours from General Liu and I've sworn to follow him until I die. I cannot break my oath. I'll leave eventually, so you should help me convey my message to Lord Cao”. Zhang Liao did so, and Cao Cao was further impressed with Guan Yu. The Fu Zi gave a slightly different account of this incident. It stated that Zhang Liao had a dilemma on whether to convey Guan Yu's message to Cao Cao or not: if he did, Cao Cao might execute Guan Yu; if he did not, he would be failing in his service to Cao Cao. He sighed, "Lord Cao is my superior and is like a father to me; Guan Yu is like a brother to me”. He eventually made his decision to tell Cao Cao. Cao Cao said, "A subject who serves a lord but does not forget his origins is truly a man of righteousness. When do you think he will leave?" Zhang Liao replied, "Guan Yu has received favours from Your Excellency. He'll most probably leave after he has repaid your kindness". After Guan Yu slew Yan Liang and lifted the siege on Boma, Cao Cao knew that he would leave, so he presented Guan with even heavier rewards. Guan Yu sealed up all the gifts he received from Cao Cao, wrote a farewell letter to the latter, and headed towards Yuan Shao's territory to reunite with Liu Bei. Cao Cao's subordinates wanted to pursue Guan Yu, but Cao stopped them and said, "He's just doing his duty to his lord. There's no need to pursue him”. Pei Songzhi commented on this as follows: "Cao Cao admired Guan Yu's character even though he knew that the latter would not remain under him. He did not send his men to pursue Guan Yu when the latter left, so as to allow Guan to fulfil his loyalty. If he did not possess the magnanimity of an overlord, how would he have allowed this to happen? This was a showcase of Cao Cao's goodness”. When Cao Cao and Yuan Shao clashed at the Battle of Guandu in 200, Yuan sent Liu Bei to contact Liu Pi, a Yellow Turban rebel chief in Runan (present-day Runan County, Zhumadian, Henan), and assist Liu Pi in attacking the imperial capital Xu (present-day Xuchang, Henan) while Cao was away at Guandu. Guan Yu reunited with Liu Bei around this time. Liu Bei and Liu Pi were defeated by Cao Cao's general Cao Ren, after which Liu Bei returned to Yuan Shao. Liu Bei secretly planned to leave Yuan Shao, so he pretended to persuade Yuan to ally with Liu Biao, the Governor of Jing Province. Yuan Shao sent Liu Bei to contact another rebel leader, Gong Du, in Runan, where they gathered a few thousand soldiers. Cao Cao turned back and attacked Runan after scoring a decisive victory over Yuan Shao at Guandu, and he defeated Liu Bei in Runan. Liu Bei fled south and found shelter under Liu Biao, who put him in charge of Xinye (present-day Xinye County, Nanyang, Henan) at the northern border of Jing Province. Guan Yu followed Liu Bei to Xinye. Liu Biao died in 208 and was succeeded by his younger son, Liu Cong, who surrendered Jing Province to Cao Cao when the latter started a campaign that year with the aim of wiping out opposing forces in southern China. Liu Bei evacuated Xinye together with his followers and they headed towards Xiakou (in present-day Wuhan, Hubei), which was guarded by Liu Biao's elder son Liu Qi and was independent of Cao Cao's control. Along the journey, Liu Bei divided his party into two groups – one led by Guan Yu which would sail along the river towards Jiangling (in present-day Jingzhou, Hubei); another led by Liu Bei which would travel on land. Cao Cao sent 5,000 elite cavalry to pursue Liu Bei and they caught up with him at Changban, Dangyang, igniting the Battle of Changban. Liu Bei managed to escape from the pursuers and reach Han Ford, where he was picked up by Guan Yu's fleet, and they sailed to Xiakou together. In 208, Liu Bei allied with Sun Quan and they defeated Cao Cao at the decisive Battle of Red Cliffs. Cao Cao retreated north after his defeat and left Cao Ren behind to defend Jing Province. In the Battle of Jiangling (a follow-up to Red Cliffs), Guan Yu was sent to block Cao Ren's supply lines via infiltration, so he led a special force to attack Xiangyang, which was guarded by Cao Cao's general Yue Jin. Yue Jin defeated Guan Yu and Su Fei and drove them away. After seizing and pacifying the various commanderies in southern Jing Province, Liu Bei appointed Guan Yu as the Administrator of Xiangyang and "General Who Rocks Bandits", and ordered him to garrison at the north of the Yangtze River. Guan Yu later engaged Yue Jin and Wen Ping at Xunkou and lost. Wen Ping attacked Guan Yu's equipage and supplies at Han Ford and burnt his boats at Jingcheng. Between 212 and 215, Liu Bei started a campaign to seize control of Yi Province (covering present-day Sichuan and Chongqing) from the provincial governor Liu Zhang. Most of Liu Bei's subordinates participated in the campaign, while Guan Yu was ordered to remain behind to guard Liu's territories in Jing Province and oversee its affairs. During that period of time, tensions were rising at the border between Liu Bei and Sun Quan's domains in Jing Province as the two allies became more suspicious of each other. After Liu Bei had taken over Yi Province, Sun Quan asked him for three commanderies in southern Jing Province but Liu refused. Sun Quan then sent his general Lü Meng to seize the three commanderies by force. In response, Liu Bei ordered Guan Yu to lead troops to stop Lü Meng, but Guan was deterred by Gan Ning from crossing the shallows near Yiyang to confront Sun Quan's forces. The shallows were thus named 'Guan Yu's Shallows'. Lu Su (the commander of Sun Quan's forces in Jing Province) later held talks with Guan Yu to discuss and settle the problem. Liu Bei eventually agreed to divide Jing Province between his and Sun Quan's domains along the Xiang River. Both sides then withdrew their forces. In 219, Liu Bei emerged victorious in the Hanzhong Campaign against Cao Cao, after which he declared himself "King of Hanzhong". He appointed Guan Yu as "General of the Vanguard" and bestowed upon him a ceremonial axe. In the same year, Guan Yu led his forces to attack Cao Ren at Fan (or Fancheng, in present-day Fancheng District, Xiangyang, Hubei) and besieged the city. Cao Cao sent Yu Jin to lead reinforcements to help Cao Ren. It was in autumn and there were heavy showers, so the Han River overflowed. Yu Jin's seven armies were destroyed in the flood. Yu Jin surrendered to Guan Yu while his subordinate Pang De refused and was executed by Guan. The bandits led by Liang Jia and Lu Hun received official seals from Guan Yu, so they submitted to him and became his followers. Guan Yu's fame spread throughout China. The Shu Ji recorded that before Guan Yu embarked on the Fancheng campaign, he dreamt about a boar biting his foot. He told his son Guan Ping, "I'm growing weaker this year. I may not be able to return”. After Yu Jin's defeat, Cao Cao contemplated relocating the imperial capital from Xu (present-day Xuchang, Henan) to another place to avoid Guan Yu, but Sima Yi and Jiang Ji told him that Sun Quan would become restless when he heard of Guan Yu's victory. They suggested to Cao Cao to ally with Sun Quan and enlist his help in hindering Guan Yu's advances, and in return, Cao Cao would recognise the legitimacy of Sun Quan's claim over the territories in Jiangdong. In this way, the siege on Fancheng would automatically be lifted. Cao Cao heeded their suggestion. Previously, Sun Quan had sent a messenger to meet Guan Yu and propose a marriage between his son and Guan's daughter. However, Guan Yu not only rejected the proposal, but also scolded and humiliated the messenger. Sun Quan was enraged. Cao Cao later sent Xu Huang to lead another army to relief Cao Ren at Fancheng. Xu Huang broke Guan Yu's encirclement and routed Guan's forces on the battlefield, thus lifting the siege on Fancheng. Guan Yu withdrew his forces after seeing that he could not overcome the enemy. The Shu Ji recorded an incident about Xu Huang meeting Guan Yu on the battlefield. Xu Huang had a close friendship with Guan Yu. They often chatted about other things apart from military affairs. When they met again at Fancheng, Xu Huang gave an order to his men, "Whoever manages to take Guan Yunchang's head will be rewarded with 1,000 jin of gold”. Guan Yu was shocked and he asked Xu Huang, "Brother, what are you talking about?" Xu Huang replied, "This is an affair of the state”. After Guan Yu defeated and captured Yu Jin at Fan (or Fancheng), his army lacked food supplies so he seized grain from one of Sun Quan's granaries at Xiang Pass. By then, Sun Quan had secretly agreed to the alliance with Cao Cao, and had sent his general Lü Meng and others to lead a vanguard force to invade Jing Province while he followed behind with another army. At Xunyang, Lü Meng ordered his troops to hide in vessels disguised as civilian and merchant ships and they sailed towards Jing Province. Along the way, Lü Meng employed infiltration tactics to disable the watchtowers set up by Guan Yu along the river, so Guan was totally unaware of the invasion. When Guan Yu embarked on the Fancheng campaign, he left Mi Fang and Shi Ren behind to defend his key bases in Jing Province – Nan commandery and Gong'an. Guan Yu had all along viewed them with contempt. During the campaign, Mi Fang and Shi Ren sent insufficient supplies to Guan Yu's army at the frontline, and Guan remarked, "I'll deal with them when I come back”. Mi Fang and Shi Ren felt uneasy about this. When Sun Quan invaded Jing Province, Lü Meng showed understanding towards Mi Fang and successfully induced the latter into surrendering while Yu Fan also persuaded Shi Ren to give up resistance. Liu Bei's territories in Jing Province fell under Sun Quan's control after the surrenders of Mi Fang and Shi Ren. By the time Guan Yu retreated from Fancheng, Sun Quan's forces had occupied Jiangling and captured the families of Guan's soldiers. Lü Meng ordered his troops to treat the civilians well and ensure that they were not harmed. Most of Guan Yu's soldiers lost their fighting spirit and deserted and went back to Jing Province to reunite with their families. Guan Yu knew that he had been isolated so he withdrew to Maicheng (present-day Maicheng Village, Lianghe Town, Dangyang, Hubei) and headed west to Zhang District, where his remaining men deserted him and surrendered to the enemy. Sun Quan sent Zhu Ran and Pan Zhang to block Guan Yu's retreat route. Guan Yu, along with his son Guan Ping and subordinate Zhao Lei, were captured alive by Pan Zhang's deputy Ma Zhong in an ambush. Guan Yu and Guan Ping were later executed by Sun Quan's forces in Linju (in present-day Nanzhang County, Xiangyang, Hubei).