      Figure 2.1 illustrates the main components of the SOA prototype. A service is the representation of one or more functions that one or more entities within an SES can provide. These are called the service provider. Services can also have one or more service consumers; cases where a service provider can be identified but there are no consumers, for instance a population of animals with no predators, represent either a point of instability or of untapped potential. When modeling the dynamics of interaction between service providers and consumers, it is important to first record some information specific to the services themselves. These include things key to understanding a service’s viability, such as interfaces, constraints, policies and contracts related to its consumption (explained in more detail below). 
2.4.1 Service Viability 
      For a provider-consumer relationship to be realized it must first be viable; viability in this respect is a result of four traits: compatibility, reachability, awareness, and willingness. Consumption of services firsts requires that the provider’s delivery mechanisms – its interfaces – are compatible with and reachable by the consumer. Ecosystem services are useless unless they can accommodate the consumer’s specific physiological and psychological requirements for using that service. For ecosystem 59 services these might include the harvest of food or the action of hunting, but at a smaller ecological scale interfaces might include different physical or even chemical processes. A wall-outlet makes an excellent example of a technological interface for accessing the service of potential energy from a local electric company. 
      Compatibility is often also a matter of the constraints, policies and contracts in place regarding service consumption. Constraints are physical limits or ecological thresholds, such as the maximum rate of carbon sequestration per square acre of wetland or the maximum sustainable yield of a fishery. They are driven by the service provider’s supporting services, underlying ecosystem and population processes. Policies are similar to constraints; they don’t manifest naturally but have been levied through human action, and can reflect the spectrum of social institutions that govern human action within ecosystems, such as fishing quotas or cultural taboos; contracts are active agreements between providers and consumers and often represent an agreement between parties on various policies, but can also address more esoteric issues such as equity or justice. Whereas constraints cannot be ignored, policies and contracts can be broken. Policies and contracts can also be levied upon the service use in terms of the outcomes of its consumption, e.g. air pollution quotas. 
      A service’s reachability is similar to its compatibility, but is concerned with the spatial and temporal practicality of interaction (constraints), rather than its functional possibility, and is one way which contracts influence service use. Landscape structure, for instance, often influences the reachability of ecosystem services by consumers. Awareness and willingness are the final two components of viability, which only 60 become relevant for service consumers that involve some form of agency. In the cases where ecosystem service consumption involves choice, the agent-consumer must be both aware that the service is available to them, and also must be a willing consumer. 
2.4.2 Example 1: The Electric Company 
      An electric utility company is often used to showcase the SOA, and is a good example of service viability. The utility company (the service provider) generates and distributes electricity (the service) to residential and business areas, and consumers of this service access the electricity via a wall outlet (service interface) in their home. In order to use the electricity, a consumer needs to understand what type of plug to use and the voltage of the supply (service constraints), possible limits to the load (service policy) and other details. A residential or business user will need to open an account with the utility in order to use the supply (service contract) and the utility will meter usage and expects the consumer to pay for use at the rate prescribed (another service policy). When the consumer and utility company commit to the constraints and polices specified within the service contract (willingness), the consumer can receive electricity using the service as long as the electricity distribution grid and house connection remain intact (e.g. a surprise event like a storm knocking down power lines would disrupt distribution) and the consumer, in order to continue service consumption must be able to afford and have the appropriate method of payment (e.g. a check by mail or electronic funds transfer) for the utility (reachability). Of course the consumer would have never opened an account in the first place if they did not know the company existed (awareness). 61 2.4.3 The Service Interaction and Outcomes 
      The consumption of services is not always a passive enterprise. Often, successful interaction requires knowledge of the appropriate consumer and producer behavior, i.e. orchestration or choreography of events. This manifests itself naturally in phenomena such as mating rituals, but is also especially prevalent as a result of the intersection of culture with ecosystem service consumption. For example, there may be complex behavioral rituals that surround the harvest and use of wild game for food. It is crucial here to recognize also how the constraints, policies and contracts discussed above will influence or define both consumer and provider behavior by influencing, limiting and/or negotiating the service’s viability (Figure 2.2). Consumer-provider interactions are also characterized by their results or real world effects. Not only should this be represented by the systemic influence the consumption has on the consumer, but it should also reflect resultant ecosystem services that consumption spawns. If consumption of an ecosystem service results in the creation of greenhouse gasses, for instance, then one real world effect would be global warming. 
2.4.4 Execution Context 
      A service’s execution context (Figure 2.3) differs from the rest of the concepts in this prototype, in that it is the instance-specific representation of discrete provider-consumer interactions. The execution context describes the particular of the ‘arrow’ drawn between a service provider and service consumer. It provides a snapshot of all the 62 aforementioned factors as they manifest in real-world ecosystem service transactions, including the discrete observed outcomes associated with that transaction. It is perhaps the most important aspect of the SOA because ecosystem services can and are likely to be consumed in multiple ways at the same time, with differences in policies, contracts and behaviors leading to (sometimes remarkably) different real-world outcomes, outcomes that can influence existing or create new policies and contracts for services in the system at hand. 
      A service’s execution context is also where that type information I mentioned earlier, i.e. whether a service is a supporting, provisioning, regulating or cultural service, comes into play. Service type is largely dependent on the point of view of the consumer, and the real world effect (again, landscapes providing ‘inspirational’ services or greenhouse gases as ‘waste’). It is also possible that a single service transaction between provider and consumer actually has multiple types. A good example would be how moose provide both a provisioning service (food) to native Alaskans, as well as cultural services (identity, community, education). Also part of the execution context, are conditions specific to outcomes of the service’s consumption. That is, whether the consumption of the service is subtractive or rivalrous. The provisioning service which moose provide native Alaskans, for example, is subtractive from the overall moose population, whereas cultural services are often non-subtractive or non-rivalrous, like oft-cited aesthetic benefits derived from viewing a landscape. The execution context and outcomes of service consumption, how they are relevant within a context of change and 63 how they reflect system vulnerabilities will be explored further in later sections of this paper. 
2.5 USING THE SOA 
      I will re-emphasize that the SOA is not itself a model or framework, but a meta-framework for defining and elaborating the complex set of data embedded surrounding ecosystem services. This same framework can also be used to describe ecological interactions within ecosystems, which I explore in the following example. 
2.5.1 Example 2: Soil Services Because the ecology of soil is relatively well understood, especially in terms of the services it provides, it makes for an excellent second example. From a social-ecological perspective, soil services are support services that regulate ecosystem processes (e.g. the nutrient cycle). But as virtually all land-based organisms depend in some way on soil (Daily and others 1997), they can also be described in non-anthropocentric terms as the services that any of these organisms receive. This section will categorize a handful of these services (by no means an exhaustive list) that soil provides, and will classify one of them using the SOA prototype. A couple of additional concepts from the services architecture will also be introduced along the way. 
The choice of soil allows us to first revisit the issue of scale, especially the power of the SOA for scalar analysis. Soil is an aggregate, of micro- and macro-organisms, rock, humus, etc., and is itself more of a scalar or organizational concept than an actual 64 thing. Though the decomposition of organic waste is in fact a service provided by the thousands of organisms that make soil their home, soil as a scalar concept allows us to abstract those ultra-complex processes and consider it as the consumption of waste services provided it by animals and plants, and the delivery of nutrient, support and shelter services to plants and micro- and macro organisms. As such, some of the most commonly cited soil services are not actually services themselves, but suites of services (Figure 2.4), a bundle of services from one or more service providers that is collectively known by its real world effect, e.g. the nutrient cycle. 
      Tables 2.1 and 2.2 elaborates one service provided by soil, which I’ve decided to call the ‘topsoil nutrient service.’ This is a service consumed by plants, by which soils provide them carbon, nitrogen and water through physical contact with their root system. I’ve selected this service because it can be mediated through processes which do or do not involve human interaction, but taken from another point of view I might have chosen to make topsoil a service consumer of the other members in the water and nutrient cycling systems. The intent of this exercise is to show how easily the framework accommodates both biologically and culturally imposed realities in the same context, for example how in section 1.2 the soil’s exchange capacity (a physical limitation) and soil conservation policies (an imposed limitation) are listed side-by-side. A similar example of this is how the service’s ‘reachability’ is influenced by physical limitations to seed dispersal, which in a rangeland system is driven by random chance events like grazing, wind, etc., but in an agricultural one is a function of land ownership and cultivation strategy (which are each themselves further influenced by economics and politics). 65 Here we also see the first example of a service’s ‘execution context,’ which describes the particulars of a provider-consumer transaction. In Table 2.2, I chose to describe the topsoil service consumption within the context of industrial corn farming as deconstructed by Pollan (2006); the execution context brings the policies, contracts, behaviors and choices involved to the forefront when evaluating the real world effects of the transaction, in this case the decision to pursue high-output farming despite the policy of a limited soil capacity leads to the need for farmers to use fertilizers, with a real world effect of higher production costs, higher petroleum dependence, and further topsoil degradation. The context is also useful for exploring how the consumption of a service has changed over time, by comparing past, present (and future) ways the provider-consumer relationship has played out (i.e. for comparing the real-world effects of changes in policy and behaviors, and forecasting new real-world outcomes of projected and/or suggested changes in same). 
2.6 SOA ANALYSIS AND SUSTAINABLE OUTCOMES 
      Some of the details enumerated in Table 2.1 may seems obvious or self-evident (e.g. stating that the interface of soils is how nutrients collect on soil particles, or that physical contact with the root structure is necessary for water and nutrient transfer), but this is the result of the scope of the soil example. One can imagine how the ‘interface’ of a more complicated service, such as gaining a sense of cultural identity through the use of landscape and the pedagogy of an elder, is an important consideration. This second example takes the SOA prototype further using the Native Athabascan communities of 66 the interior Alaska Region known as the Yukon Flats. Though this example will by no means capture the entirety of the system, it will illustrate how the SOA functions as more than just a descriptive tool, as a way to explore a system’s resilience and vulnerability, and to identify starting-points for capacity-building, sustainability-minded initiatives. 
      Even under the best conditions, Alaska’s boreal forest can be hungry country for a hunter, and one can travel a long time on the Yukon River and sometimes still not find enough game to sustain a family for even a short period of time. The system worked in the past, however, when the seasonal distribution and wildlife abundance were more or less predictable, where planning accounted for alterations in abundance and shortage following a predictable if not always dependable schedule from year to year, and where people had unrestricted access to the land (Gerlach and others in press). Today, with people mostly geographically-fixed to communities, there is no guarantee that enough country food can be harvested to satisfy immediate needs of rural Alaskan communities, or that enough can be processed and put into storage to provide for food or nutritional security through long, northern winters. Access to these resources is even further confounded by a patchwork of land ownership and an institutional and regulatory framework that provides federal and state agencies with control over much of the land and most of the fish and game. Too, successful country food harvests must be well tuned with the flow of the seasons and hunters need good weather information to make the best decisions about where and when to hunt, but unexpected changes in ecosystems and weather make it more difficult for hunters to adapt and alter harvest strategies (ibid). 67 This challenge is being answered in communities by an increased reliance on store-bought foods, which provides these communities an measure of food security that was not enjoyed in the past but also increases vulnerability and undermines community health and self-reliance (Caulfield 2002; Duhaime 2002; Gerlach and others in press; Wilk 2006). Too, the quality of these imported foods and the quality of information about their nutrition and safety upon which these communities must now rely is often unreliable at best. Evidence of this include current epidemic trajectories of diabetes, heart and respiratory disease, language loss, pollution and the misuse of natural resources, malnutrition, alcoholism, poverty and crime, and are all too familiar to both the members of and scholars of rural Alaskan communities (e.g. Caulfield 2002; Duhaime 2002; Fleener and Thomas 2003; Gerlach and others in press; Graves 2004; Krupa 1999; Kuhnlein and others 2004). 
      To put this scenario in terms of the SOA, what I’ve described above is a crisis of viability created by the intersection of new and unpredictable ecological constraints with the current set of political, legal and economic policies and contracts that are in place. The ecological limits to viability of the country food harvest, e.g. changes to landscape, fire, migratory patterns and overall phenological variation, are compounded rather than mitigated by the policies and contracts of land management and wildlife management regimes. Rural Alaskan communities are increasingly faced with trade off decisions that meet their short term food security needs, such as the substitution of store-bought foods for less reliable country foods and the time spent earning wages instead of 68 time spent on the land. But these substitutions are proving to be far less perfect, however, through the syndromes discussed earlier. 
2.6.1 Example 3: The Moose Meat Service 
      I’ve elaborated the details of this (in part) using the SOA framework in Tables 2.3 and 2.4, in terms of a ‘moose meat’ service. Notice first how the structure accommodates this very different set of information, while still organizing it in a useful way. In building these tables I was forced to tease apart all of the interwoven influences on food security in the region, and as a result I now have a manageable typology for exploring the biophysical, social and cultural outcomes of the service, from a sense of belonging to the legal outcomes of hunting out of season, as well as some point-sources of vulnerability in the system. 
      Table 2.4 presents one out of many possible scenarios for the execution context of this service, an exercise that among other things has illuminated the trade-off decisions a resource user is faced with and their resultant outcomes, as well as how the current policy for ceremonial-purpose xemption to hunting limits – a policy that officials see as a concession and in the peoples’ best interest – can sometimes work at counter purposes with its intent, resulting in waste rather than increased food security. I could have, however, taken the exercise even further by drafting an execution context for each different kind of stakeholder in Alaska, from subsistence user to tourist/sport hunter, and have a basis for comparing them all. Or, the same framework could be used to compare circumstances of the same hunter at various points in time, i.e. the turn of the century, 69 before and after Alaska statehood, today, and even into the future (based on some hypothetical or projected changes). Indeed the comparative ability does not end there; one could go so far as to generate an SOA analysis of moose, caribou, and reindeer uses for cross-cultural comparison throughout the Arctic, and look for solutions to the vulnerable points in one system, such as the crisis of viability discussed above, in the strengths of the others. 
2.7 CONCLUSION 
      We know that we can no longer simply ask how much a functioning ecosystem is worth (Costanza and others 1997); indeed we must accept that a functioning ecosystem is a necessary part to a functioning social-ecological system, whose interrelatedness extends beyond simple market economics. When Costanza and his coauthors presented their concept of ecosystem service valuation, it was not as a new standard but as the stimulus for debate and discussion regarding the intersections between societies and nature (Costanza 1998); this essay is written with exactly the same sentiment as that seminal Nature piece: I do not present this as perfectly contrived, but as a prototype for social and physical scientists to tinker with in hopes that the disciplines will come together via a shared framework to create a functional way to understand, model, and benefit these infinitely complex linked systems. The framework should enable researchers and planners with a standardized toolkit for extending the MA’s ecosystem services model, enhancing our analytical ability by drawing our attention to a system’s functional relationships rather than its functional units. In concert with existing tools like flow charts 70 and causal-loop diagrams, the SOA perspective provides a way for analysts to better conceptualize complex human-nature relationships, predict the cascading effects of changes in human behavior, extinction events and other ecological crises, and to test the efficacy/viability of ecosystem substitutions. 
The full power and flexibility of the SOA will be realized when the framework is used to model consumer-provider relationships from a number of points-of-view. The SOA offers standardization to the discussion of any ecological system, where it may be beneficial to discuss support and provisioning service consumption from the point of view of a polar bear, or of pollinators. Too, liberating ecosystem services from the perspective of human consumption allows for another consideration: that of people as contributors to ecosystems, not just consumers and polluters but capable of providing services of our own. With this new way of thinking about social-ecological systems, one that returns people to the role of participants in the natural world (and end to which I have presented the SOA as one small step towards), new potentialities for working towards sustainable and integrated social-ecological systems emerge. Coming out of the Foodshed: Food Security, Nutritional, Psychological and Cultural Well-being in a Context of Global Change: the Case of Minto, AK.14 
3.1 ABSTRACT 
Kloppenburg et al. (1996) gave us an evocative blueprint for local, healthful food systems through the foodshed metaphor. The metaphor is equally as useful in reverse, for describing the trajectory of any community whose existing local foodways are fragmenting, being supplanted and/or replaced by increased participation in the global food system. In this paper I discuss one such example of this ‘coming out of the foodshed’ process: the Native village of Minto, Alaska. In particular this paper discusses both the harvest of country foods as practiced by this community, as well as the circumstances of the whole rural Alaskan food system, particularly within a context of global environmental, social and political change. The goal of this exercise is to look at how local foodways in Minto that traditionally link food, nutrition, and community health through ecology and culture, are being replaced by participation in a different system where food (calories) may seem more secure but nutrition, physical, psychological and cultural health are not. 
14 Loring, P.A. and S.C. Gerlach. In Preparation. Agriculture and Human Values  82 3.2 INTRODUCTION 
That country, all you see, the animals, plants, everything. We live on that. Now it’s all taminated. I seen so much change. Fire. Earthquake. Mining. The lakes dry up. You’re a white man. Do it mean anything to you? 
--Peter John, Traditional Chief of Minto (quoted in Krupa 1999). 
It has been to my great fortune to be accepted as researcher by the people of Minto, Alaska, including especially my friend Chief Patrick Smith. I learned so very much from him and his community about the importance to one’s well-being of things like tradition, family, spirituality, and self-sufficiency. Unfortunately, these messages were shared with me at a time when the community was itself struggling to maintain these aspects of their own lives. Many community members, especially the elders but also adults and even some well-spoken youngsters, lament their slow trajectory away from many of the keystones of what they call their ‘traditional’ ways of life, such as respect for and time spent on the land, with elders, and the continued use of country foods. But they also share more immediate concerns for their physical well-being: confronted by changes in ecosystems, climate, politics and the global economy that have direct ramifications for their ability to access and make use of local resources, thereby compromising their food and nutritional security. In response, they are often forced to choose strategies that answer these short-term challenges but create long-term problems in return. And though their social, psychological, cultural, physical and ecological well-83being seem intuitively to be inexorably intertwined, the people of Minto, like so many other Native Alaskan communities, are in fact caught making trade-offs between them. 
      Today, the diets of rural Alaskan communities like Minto are in transition; country foods (those harvested from the land, often called subsistence foods) share an increasing partnership with store-bought foods, which provides these communities an additional measure of food security but also increases vulnerability and undermines community self-reliance (Caulfield 2002; Duhaime 2002; Gerlach and others in press; Wilk 2006). This paper uses the foodshed metaphor to re-examine the food system change in Minto as documented by Reed (1995) and to tease apart the circumstances that bring these tradeoff situations to bear (after Kloppenburg and others 1996). The foodshed is derived from the ecological concept of the watershed: a geographic context for the flow of water through a landscape and into communities. It is intended to serve similarly as a geographic context for discussing the movement of food, through the processes of harvest, preparation, storage and consumption, at individual, community and regional levels. There is a normative distinction made between foodsheds and a global food system: a proper foodshed is said to respect the integrity and proximity of particular socio-geographic spaces, where the procurers, preparers and consumers of food are linked not just by economy but by community, where landscape is understood to be a part of that community, and where human activities therefore conform with local knowledge and experiences of what that landscape can and can not provide. The notion of a global foodshed is therefore an oxymoron. Embedded in this differentiation is the hypothesis that whereas the global system is destructive to the integrity of the ecological and social 84 landscapes, a foodshed espouses a moral economy and “commensal community,” one that eats together and with respect for the lands upon which they subsist. 
      The reseach I present here speaks directly to that hypothesis. Contrary to the relatively optimistic view presented by Reed, Minto is experiencing the destructive process of “coming out of its foodshed:” a process where exogenous economic, political and ecological drivers are motivating the gradual release of local control over the food system, and prompting choices that distance the people, both geographically as well as psychologically, from the land, from safe and healthy food, and from each other. Thus, the economy of life for this community is transitioning in a direction opposite that described in the original foodshed paper: from a moral economy which involves obligations of mutuality, reciprocity and equity, to one dominated instead by the exogenous forces of a global market economy and plagued by the vagaries and vulnerabilities participation in a global market brings (Gerlach and others in press). But in my time with the people of Minto I also perceived a countercurrent to this trajectory; as I was learning my own lessons about tradition, self-reliance, and faith, I was also witnessing the emergence of a movement of cultural renewal founded upon their unique style of Christian faith, and driven by a desire to find a way to both participate in the greater contemporary Alaskan community and to remain Mhenti: the people “of the lakes.” This paper will conclude, therefore, with a note on how the community is and might continue to regain local control of their foodshed and therefore their self reliance. 85 3.3 METHODS 
This paper brings together ideas that developed over the course of two years of research into rural Alaska food systems, and several weeks during that two-year period spent as a participant-observer with members of the Minto community. My arguments build upon and are informed by the extensive background information on Minto and other Interior Alaskan food systems, as provided by the community itself and as compiled by Andrews (1988; 1985), Caulfield (1983), Krupa (1999), Olson (1968), and Reed (1995), among others. In many cases, I will reference ‘informant(s)’ of my research, which should be taken to indicate that the statement of fact is taken directly from one or more anonymous interviews or surveys. No informant is quoted here without their permission, nor are they identified by name, as making reference to a particular person or events in these terms (especially in respect to abstract discussions of the future,) borders on taboo. Any other statements of fact I make that is not attributed to informants or cited to some external source represents a synthesis of observations made over the research period, though where necessary I have sought out additional references from literature (and cited them appropriately) to support these claims. Needless to say, these syntheses (and any errors in judgment or logic that follows from them) are my own. 
3.4 MINTO, AK AND THE MINTO FLATS FOODSHED 
      Minto is a community of roughly 200 people or 50 households, mostly decendants of the Lower Tanana Athabascan Indians, located on the west bank of the Tolovana River 130 miles northwest of Fairbanks (approximately 65.153330° North Latitude and -86 
          15 Dr. Michael Krauss of the Alaska Native Language Center reports that the site of “New” Minto is ironically more deserving of the “old” epithet, as it is a much older site of seasonal occupation than “Old” Minto. 
      149.336940° West Longitude) (Figure 1). The village of Minto is in the western-most portion of historic Tanana Athabascan territory. During the late 1800s, the Minto band occupied much of the lower interior region of Alaska, but traveled seasonally as far north as the Brooks Range and Yukon River flats for trade and as a part of their gathering and hunting activities (Figures 2 and 3). The village is now 40 miles north of the originally settled location (“Old Minto”), on higher grounds that had been used traditionally as a fall and winter camp since at least the early 1900s15. Old Minto first became a permanent settlement when some members of the Minto band built log cabins there, on the bank of the Tanana River, with other families choosing to live there in tents on a seasonal basis. The Minto band was eventually joined by bands from throughout the Tanana area, including Chena, Nenana, Toklat and Crossjacket Athabascans (AKDEC 2006; Slaby 1981). The community chose to move from there in 1969 due to repeated flooding and worries of erosion, but ironically the old location has held up rather well since. Today the village council is comprised of four tribes: Bedzeyhti (Caribou tail), Ch’echalyu (Salmon tail), Tsiyhyu (Red clay paint), and Tonidra Gheltsilna (Eagle, or the middle tribe). The Eagle tribe is also considered the ‘middle’ or peacemaking tribe as they have historically been able to diffuse social tensions amongst the new neighbors (Krupa 1999). 
      Access to urban services in most Alaskan ‘bush’ communities is limited logistically to river and air transport, but Minto’s circumstances are inverted in this respect; no barge service is possible via the Tolovana River, because the waters are too 87 shallow, but Minto is on the road system, accessible from the city of Fairbanks by the Elliott Highway, a now mostly-paved and well-maintained 118-mile drive. Residents have, despite the high costs of fuel and the rough and long drive (2 ½ dusty hours on a good day in the summer and 4 harrowing hours in the middle of winter), come to rely on bi-monthly trips to Fairbanks for provisioning. In some cases informal coops have developed between families where one shopper will procure supplies (i.e. groceries) for several households. Families purchase a wide variety of foodstuffs on these trips, much in line with the purchasing patterns of other areas of the United States (Reed 1995). Nevertheless locally harvested country foods, including fish and game such as salmon, whitefish, moose, black bear, beaver, ptarmigan and waterfowl, and botanical resources such as berries, rhubarb and rosehips, remain the most important part of the local foodshed. Fall activities are dominated by the moose hunt, and most still travel to fish camps each summer: seasonally used fishing and trapping areas on the Tanana River and Goldstream Creek (Figures 2 & 3). Indeed harvested lands today remain remarkably similar to those utilities at the turn of the 20th century, when the fishwheel (Figure 6) was adopted and the dominant focus of fishing activities changed from whitefish to salmon, allowing a more consistent land tenure in the lower Tanana River area (Slaby 1981). 
      These lands, of Minto and the surrounding ‘Minto Flats’ area, encompass 2,500 square miles of sub-arctic grasslands and wetlands, are drained by 5 major streams (the Tolovana, Chatanika and Tatalina rivers, and Goldstream and Washington creeks, see Figures 1-3), surrounded by mountain ranges of 3,000 to 4,000 feet, and as mentioned are rich riparian wildlife habitat (AKDEC 2006; Andrews 1988; Krupa 1999; Shepherd 88 
          16 The community itself did not make this purchase, rather the community’s non-profit corporation, the ‘Seth-do-ya-ah Corporation’ holds the title. 
      1987; Village Council 1983). Minto is a rare case where the community16 has (very recently) been able to purchase title to some 120+ square miles of the wetlands contiguous to the village-proper, yet this land holding seem meagers when compared to the range of lands traditionally traveled by its hunters. Movement on and across this landscape is fundamental to the feasibility of Native Alaskan adaptive strategies, but today the logistics of travel across these harvest areas is complicated and brings external forces to bear on even this local aspect of the foodshed. Mobility is linked to the purchase and maintenance costs of transportation technologies (i.e. ATVs and gasoline), made unpredictable by new ecological changes in land cover and forest fire regimes, and further constrained by a patchwork of land ownership (Figure 4) and an institutional and regulatory framework that puts federal and state agencies in a position to legislate control over much of the landscape (Gerlach and others in press; Juday and others 1998; Krupnik and Jolly 2002; Nationalatlas.gov 2003; Norris 2002). Within the last two decades but most intensely within the last two or three years, significant changes have been observed in the distribution, availability and migration patterns of harvested resources such as moose, ducks and fish. Particulars of these downscale, synergistic impacts of global climate change, land development and resource extraction in Alaska’s interior remain poorly understood, though weather and wildlife patterns are without a doubt changing (Shepherd 1987). Hunters cite observations that match with the anticipated phenology of climate change: including the shifting of seasons, time of and time between freeze-up and break-up, lower water levels on the rivers, and new distributions of plants and insects. All 89 
of these have severe logistical implications for the success of the country food harvest, as successful subsistence harvests must be well tuned with the flow of the seasons.
