windows open. But the door closed, probably due to his wanting some privacy. Hopefully so
he can look up Internet porn.
But the truth is, Owen’s never really struck me as the Internet porn type, although he is a
divorced, middle-aged male, which one has to assume is Internet porn’s target demo—well,
aside from fourteen-year-old boys.
“Owen,” I say, giving his door a tap. “Your eight-thirty appointment, Jamie, is here.”
  
Jamie, standing by my desk in her baby blue sweater set and jeans, calls, through the grate,
“Um, hi, Dr. Veatch?”
Dr. Veatch doesn’t respond. Which is totally weird. Because I know he’s in there.
That’s when I start to get the creepy feeling. And the truth is, I’ve worked in Fischer Hall
long enough to know that when you get a creepy feeling, it’s probably right on target.
“Jamie,” I say, trying not to let the growing dread I feel show in my voice. “Go out to the
front desk and ask Pete, the security guard, to come back here a minute, will you?”
Jamie, looking bemused but still smiling, says, “Okay?” and goes out into the hall.
As soon as she’s gone, I whip out my key to the hall director’s office, insert it into the lock,
and open Owen’s door.
And see why it is that he didn’t respond to my knock.
I quickly pull the door shut again, remove my key, sink down into the closest chair—the one
by Sarah’s desk.
Then I stick my head between my knees.
I’m studying the tops of my running shoes when Pete and Jamie return, Pete panting a little,
because he’s got the same problem saying no to Magda’s offers of free DoveBars that I do.
“What is it?” Pete wants to know. “What’s wrong? Why are you hunched over like that?”
“I have cramps,” I say, to my shoelaces. “Jamie, we’re going to have to reschedule your
appointment for another time. Okay?”
I glance up from my shoes and see that Jamie looks confused. “Is everything all right?” she
wants to know.
“Uh,” I say. What am I going to say, Yeah, everything’s fine? Because everything’s not fine.
And she’s going to find that out—sooner than later. “Not really. We’ll call you later to
reschedule, okay?”
“Okay,” Jamie says, now looking more concerned than confused. “I…”
But something in my face—maybe the nausea I’m fighting back? Why did I go for that
second waffle?—stops her, and she turns and leaves the office.
“Shut the door,” I say to Pete, who does so.
“Heather,” he says. “What’s this all about? What’s wrong with you? Are you sick? You want
I should call the nurse on duty?”
  
“I’m not sick,” I say, and hold out my keys, still keeping my head as close as I can to the
floor (I’m hoping this will keep the nausea at bay). “But Owen is. Well, not sick so much
as…dead. You better call nine-one-one. I would but…I’m not feeling too good right now.”
“Dead?” I can’t see his face, but I have a good view of his shoes—sturdy black ones, with
reinforced steel toes for when recalcitrant residents—or their guests—try to resist being
physically dissuaded from whatever half-assed stunt they’re intent on embarking upon.
“What do you mean, dead?”
“Dead dead,” I say. “As in dead.”
“Why didn’t you say something before?” Pete swears to himself and grabs my keys. I can
hear him fumbling for the right one, but I don’t risk looking up to help. Because things are
still swimming around a lot south of my throat.
They’d been chocolate chip waffles, too. That’s just wrong. Why can’t I ever just eat a
healthy breakfast? What’s so wrong with whole wheat toast, half a grapefruit, and an egg
white omelet? Why do I always have to reach for the whipped cream? Why?
“Why didn’t you try to do something for him?” Pete wants to know, still trying to find the
right key. “CPR, or something?”
“CPR won’t help,” I say, to my shoes. “Given that he’s dead.”
“Since when do you have a medical degree?” Pete demands. And finally gets the right key,
and shoulders the door open with far more force than necessary.
Then freezes.
I know he freezes because I’m still watching his feet.
“Oh,” he says softly.
“Put down the blinds,” I say, to the floor.
“What?” Pete’s voice sounds funny.
“The window blinds,” I say. “Anyone walking by along the sidewalk can look in and see. I’m
surprised someone hasn’t yet.” On the other hand, it’s New York City. Busy, busy New York,
filled with busy, busy New Yorkers. “Put the blinds down.” I realize I’m starting to feel
better. Not well enough to look into the room Pete’s standing in. But well enough to sit up a
little and grab the phone. “I’ll call nine-one-one. You put down the blinds.”
“Right.” Pete’s voice still sounds funny. This might be because he’s swearing, steadily and
with a great deal of creativity, under this breath. I hear the blinds slide down.
I still don’t look behind me, though. I clutch the phone receiver to my ear and stab the
number 9–9–1–1 into the phone. The extra 9 is so that I can get an outside line.
  
It’s as I’m doing this that a key is inserted into the keyhole of the door to the outer office—
which locks automatically when closed—and a second later, Sarah, our grad student assistant
(or, I guess, more correctly, my grad student assistant, since there’s no our anymore), comes
in, looking surprised to see me sitting at her desk.
“Hey,” she says. “What’s going on? Why’s Pete in here? Where’s—”
“Don’t!” both Pete and I yell at the same time, as Sarah takes a step toward the open door to
Dr. Veatch’s office.
It’s at that exact moment that the emergency operator says, “Nine-one-one, what’s the
emergency?” into my ear.
“What’s wrong?” Sarah wants to know, because Pete has put his hands out and is striding
toward her, blocking her efforts to get into Dr. Veatch’s office. “What is it? Let me see. Let
me see!”
“Hello?” the emergency operator squawks in my ear.
“Yes, hello,” I say. “I need the police at Fischer Hall, on Washington Square West.” I give
them the address, even though it’s hardly necessary. Every emergency operator in Manhattan
knows where Death Dorm is by now.
“Just go sit down over there at Heather’s desk,” Pete is saying to Sarah, as he pulls the door
to Dr. Veatch’s office closed behind him.
“Why?” Sarah demands. “What’s going on in there? Why don’t you want to me see? This
isn’t fair. I—”
“What’s the matter with you?” Pete wants to know. “I told you to sit down, so go sit down!”
“You can’t tell me what to do,” Sarah cries. “I’m not just a student, you know! I’m an
employee of this college, same as you. I have as much right to know what’s going on as any
other employee of this college. I’m tired of being treated—”
“What’s the nature of the emergency, ma’am?” the 911 operator wants to know.
“Um,” I say. I can hardly hear myself think, with Sarah’s whining.
“—like a second-class citizen by President Allington’s administration,” she goes on. “We’re
unionizing, and no amount of hiding behind a regressive administration’s labor board
decision is going to deny us our right to do so!”
“Ma’am?” the operator asks. “Are you there?”
“Yes,” I say. “Sorry.”
“And what is the nature of your emergency?”
“Um,” I say again. “The nature of my emergency is that someone shot my boss in the head.”
  
3
You’re not fat
But put down the cake
Here, eat this celery
Give dessert a break
“Big Boned”
Written by Heather Wells
Okay, I’ll admit it. I wasn’t Owen’s biggest fan.
Well, whatever! I mean, he was only assigned to Fischer Hall in order to do damage control.
That’s what an ombudsman does. It wasn’t like he wanted to be here. The president’s office
parachuted him into the hall director’s office to try to do what he could with the whole
“Death Dorm” mess.
But it wasn’t even like Owen ever fully concentrated on doing that, since he kept getting
distracted by the grad-students-unionizing thing.
And yet he managed to find time to gripe at me about borrowing supplies from the dining
office.
Okay, I know, it’s petty to complain about that when the man is dead.
But at least I, unlike Sarah, refrained from saying he deserved to get shot.
Of course, Sarah hadn’t seen the way that bullet had tunneled through Owen’s skull and come
out the other side, leaving a black hole—surrounded by blood spatter—in the middle of his
Garfield Month-at-a-Glance Day Planner (Garfield: a cat that wears sunglasses and eats
lasagna).
The actual damage to Owen’s skull had been surprisingly minimal. The bullet had entered the
back of his head from the window—the street noise I’d heard had been audible because the
window was open, not because someone had shot out one of the panes—and exited out the
front. I guess Owen had wanted to enjoy the warm spring morning.
He hadn’t even fallen out of his chair, but was instead sitting upright, his coffee untouched—
but obviously cold—in front of him. Just his head was slumped over, like he was taking a
nap. Clearly, death had taken him unaware, and been mercifully quick.
But still. I’m pretty sure he didn’t deserve to go that way. Or at all.
  
“Well, whatever,” Sarah says, when I mention this. We’re sitting in an empty storage room
down the hall from our own office, which has been cordoned off as a crime scene by the
police.
Formerly used by the student government as their administrative office until after months of
complaints we offered them a new one—not located directly across from the dining office
like this one, and so reeking of smoke from the dining manager’s illicit cigarettes—upstairs,
the storage room is supposed to be where we stack old broken chairs from the lobby and
misdelivered boxes for the North American Man/ Boy Love Association, which has an office
down the street, and whose mail I often “accidentally” forget to forward.
For some reason, however, there is a small desktop computer set up in the storage room,
along with several non-broken chairs, a sleeping bag, and what appears to be a fully
functional Mr. Coffee with quite a few mugs scattered around it. I suppose the housekeepers
or building engineers are using the space as an unofficial break room. It’s a good thing Owen
is dead, because if he found out, he’d burst a blood vessel or two, let me tell you.
“You have to admit,” Sarah says, as if she were reading my mind. “He was kind of a dick.”
“A big enough dick to get shot?” I demand. “I don’t think so.”
“What about that whole paper thing?” Sarah wants to know.
“He didn’t want me borrowing paper from another office!” I yell. “That’s just being a boss!”
“You don’t have to yell,” Sarah says. “And it’s typical of you not to see how, through petty
bureaucratic nitpicking, Veatch was micro-managing instead of looking into the broader
issues that need addressing—such as the college’s disdain for the basic human needs of its
hardest working employees.”
“I don’t know if I’d call myself one of New York College’s hardest working employees,” I
say modestly. I mean, I don’t, technically, receive free meals as part of my employment
package. I basically just steal them…
“I’m not talking about you,” Sarah snaps. “I’m talking about teaching, research, and graduate
assistants like myself, who are being denied employer-paid health care, workload protection,
child care benefits, grievance resolution procedures, and other workplace rights by an
uncaring administration!”
“Oh,” I say. I can’t help noticing that the desk I’m sitting at—the one with the computer on
it—is very messy, littered with scribbled-on Post-it notes, unidentifiable food crumbs, and
coffee-mug ring stains. I don’t remember the student government leaving this place such a
mess when they moved out, but maybe they did. I’m going to have to ask the housekeeping
staff to clean it, or we’ll get mice for sure. If Owen were to have seen this desk, I know he’d
have shaken his head, sadly. Owen was a bit of a neat freak, as exemplified by the time he
asked me how I could possibly find something on my own desk, prompting me to sweep
everything into a bottom drawer when he wasn’t looking.
Problem solved.
  
Maybe Sarah is right. Maybe Owen chose to focus on dumb stuff, like messy desks, so he
didn’t have to pay attention to big stuff. Like that someone wanted him dead.
“The fact is,” Sarah goes on, “if the president’s office continues to fail to allow us to
unionize—or even give us a space in which to meet—and sign our current contract, we will
strike, and other local unions won’t want to cross our picket lines, meaning that campus-
wide, there will be no custodial or janitorial services; no garbage pickup; and no protection
service. We’ll see how long it takes President Allington to realize how important we are
when he’s picking through trash bags piled waist-high in order to get into his office.”
“Um,” I say. “Okay.”
“And don’t think that Dr. Veatch didn’t know about any of this,” Sarah says. “We told him,
point-blank, that if he didn’t relay our demands to the president’s office, this is what would
happen.”
I blink at her. “That he’d get shot in the head?”
Sarah rolls her eyes. “No. That we’d strike. Dr. Veatch knew it. And yet they allowed another
deadline for signing our contract to pass at midnight last night. Well, now they’re going to
have to face the consequences of their actions.”
“Wait. So you think Dr. Veatch got shot by someone in your organization? Because he
wasn’t paying enough attention to your demands?”
Sarah lets out a little scream. “Heather! Of course not! The GSC doesn’t believe in violence!”
“Oh.” I blink at her some more. “Well,” I say, finally. “In light of the fact that the
ombudsman was apparently murdered this morning, do you think you can get the, um—”
“Graduate Student Collective,” she says. “We call ourselves the GSC for short.”
“Yeah. Okay. Well, maybe, since the guy you normally go through to talk to the president’s
office is DEAD, you could chill for a day, until we figure out who did this, and why?”
Sarah shakes her head at me sadly, her long hair brushing her elbows. She’s wearing her
finest no-nonsense “Graduate Student Collective” chic, which consists of overalls over a
black leotard, paired with combat boots, wire-rimmed glasses, no makeup, and a serious case
of the frizzies.
“Don’t you see, Heather? That’s what they want. How are we to know the president’s office
didn’t orchestrate Dr. Veatch’s murder themselves in order to delay our striking, knowing, as
they must, how big a wrench our striking is going to throw in their daily operations?”
“Sarah,” I say, reaching up to rub my temples. I can feel the beginnings of a headache coming
on. “No one from the president’s office shot Dr. Veatch. That is a totally ridiculous
suggestion.”
“As ridiculous as your suggesting one of us did it?” Sarah tosses her hair. “That’s just their
cover, you know,” she adds darkly. “Don’t you see? Everyone’s going to dismiss the idea as
  
ridiculous. Which is exactly how they might manage to get away with it. You know, if they
did it. Which I’m not saying they did.”
“Who did what?” A tall, pale young man appears in the doorway, wearing the requisite
messenger bag—also commonly referred to as a murse—and long, unkempt dread-locks of
the male version of a New York College graduate student. I recognize him from pictures in
the campus newspaper—and a brief introduction one afternoon in front of the library while he
and Sarah were picketing—as Sebastian Blumenthal, the head of the Graduate Student
Collective, or GSC.
And, if my superpowers don’t mistake me, the apple of Sarah’s eye.
“And what’s with all the cops down the hall?” he wants to know. “Somebody leave a body
part on the elevator again?”
I glare at him. It’s absurd how quickly news travels around this place. “That was just a
prank.”
“Hey, I’m not the one who didn’t realize it was a prosthetic and called nine-one-one,”
Sebastian says. “So what’s going on?”
“Somebody shot Dr. Veatch,” Sarah informs him, matter-of-factly.
“No shit?” Sebastian swings his murse onto the couch—seized from a student’s room and
confiscated, since non-fire-retardant furniture isn’t allowed in New York College residence
halls—beside her. “Gut shot?”
“Head,” Sarah says. “Assassination style.”
“Sweet!” Sebastian looks impressed. “I told you he had mob ties.”
“You guys,” I cry, horrified. “The man is dead! There’s nothing cool about it! And of course
Dr. Veatch didn’t have ties to the mob. What are you even talking about? It was probably just
a stray bullet from some random drug shooting over in the park.”
“I don’t know, Heather,” Sarah says, looking dubious. “You said the shot went directly
through the back of his head. Stray bullets don’t tend to do that. I think he was shot on
purpose, and by someone who knew him.”
“Or was hired to kill him,” Sebastian suggests. “Like by the president’s office, to throw off
our talks.”
“That’s what I was saying!” Sarah cries, delighted.
“A’ight?” Sebastian seems pleased with himself. Pleased enough not to remember that he’s
from Grosse Pointe. And Caucasian. “Shit, yeah. That’s what I’m talkin’ about.”
“All right,” I say. “Out. Both of you. Now.”
  
Sebastian stops smiling. “Aw, come on, Heather. You have to admit, the man was cold.
Remember when he yelled at you about the paper?”
Now I glare at Sarah. I can’t believe she told him that.
“Does everyone have to keep bringing that up?” I demand. “And he didn’t yell, he—”
“Whatever,” Sarah interrupts. “Heather’s the one who found the body, Sebastian. She’s
understandably shaken. I’m supposed to be keeping her company until the cops are ready to
interrogate her. She had a known grudge against the victim on account of the paper thing.”
“I am not shaken,” I cry. “I’m fine. And no one’s going to interrogate me. I—”
“Oh, shit,” Sebastian says, reaching out to rest a hand on my shoulder. “Sorry about that. You
all right? Can I get you anything from the caf? Hot tea, or something?”
“Ooooh,” Sarah says. “I’ll take a coffee. And cake, if there’s any.”
“Sarah!” I’m shocked.
“Well, whatever, Heather,” she says, looking annoyed. “If he’s offering. When the GSC
strikes—as we will, shortly—our meal plans will probably be taken away, so I’m not wasting
my declining dollars if someone else is offering to pay for my—”
“Heather!” Gavin McGoren, lanky film student, junior, and building resident with an
unrequited—and unfortunate—crush on me, appears in the storage room doorway, out of
breath and panting. “Oh my God, Heather. There you are. Are you all right? I just heard. I
came as fast as I could—”
“McGoren, just the man I want to see,” Sebastian says. “I need someone to work the mikes
for the rally in the park tomorrow night. You up for it?”
“Sure, whatevs,” Gavin says, letting his backpack slump to the floor, but keeping his gaze on
me. “Is it true? Was he really a victim of a random drug shooting? I knew it was dangerous
not to have those street-level windows bricked up. You do realize it could easily have been
you, don’t you, Heather?”
“Cool it, Gavin,” Sarah says. “She’s skeeved out enough. What are you trying to do, make
things worse?”
“Oh my God,” I say. “I am not skeeved out. I mean, I am. But—look, do we have to talk
about this?”
“Of course we don’t have to talk about it, Heather,” Sarah says, in her most soothing voice.
Then, to Sebastian and Gavin, she says, “Guys, please leave Heather alone. Finding a
corpse—particularly one belonging to someone with whom you worked as closely as Heather
worked with Dr. Veatch—can be very unsettling. It’s likely Heather will suffer from post-
traumatic stress for some time. We’re going to need to watch her for signs of unexplainable
aggressiveness, depression, and emotional detachment.”
  
“Sarah!” I’m appalled. “Would you please zip it?”
She says, in the same soothing voice, “Of course, Heather.” Then, to the boys, she stage
whispers, “What did I tell you about unexplainable aggressiveness?”
“Sarah.” I seriously need an aspirin. “I totally heard that.”
“Uh.” Sebastian is looking at his feet. “How long does this post-traumatic stress thing usually
last?”
“It’s impossible to say,” Sarah says, at the same time that I say, “I do not have post-traumatic
stress.”
“Oh,” Sebastian says, looking at me, now, instead of his feet. “Well, good. Because I’ve been
meaning to ask you something.”
I groan. “Not you, too.”
“She doesn’t date students,” Gavin informs him. “I already tried. It’s like a policy, or
something.”
I drop my head into my hands. Seriously. How much more can I take in one day? It’s bad
enough I actually jogged this morning (only for a few steps, but still. I could have dislodged
something. I still don’t know. All my lady parts seemed to have been working fine back at
Tad’s, when we took them for a test run. But how can you ever be sure without a visit to the
gyno?), but now my boss has been shot, my office taken over by CSI: Greenwich Village,
and Gavin McGoren is expounding on the official New York College stand on student-
employee relations? I want those two and a half hours of sleep I missed out on back.
“Uh, I wasn’t going to ask her out, dude,” Sebastian says. “I was going to ask her if she could
come to our rally tomorrow night.”
I separate my fingers and peer out at him from between them. “What?”
“Come on,” Sebastian pleads, throwing himself onto his knees. “You’re Heather Wells. It
would mean a lot if you’d show up, maybe lead us in a little round of ‘Kumbaya’—”
“No,” I say. “Absolutely not.”
“Heather,” Sebastian says. “Do you have any idea how much it would mean to the GSC if we
had a celebrity of your stature come out in support of us?”
“Come out in support—” I echo weakly, dropping my hands. “Sebastian, I could lose my job
for that!”
“No, you couldn’t,” Sebastian says. “Freedom of speech! They wouldn’t dare!”
“Seriously,” Sarah says with a grunt. “They’re fascists, but not that fascist…”
“Watch them,” I say. “Come on. I totally support you guys, and everything. Have I said
anything about the fact that you, Sebastian, are constantly hanging around this building, even
though you are not, in fact, an undergraduate, and do not, in fact, even live here? But sing at
your rally? In Washington Square Park? In front of the library, and the president’s office?
You have to be kidding me.”
“Really, Sebastian,” Sarah says, in the kind of voice only a woman who adores a guy who is
frustratingly oblivious to her feelings for him ever uses. “Sometimes you do go too far.”
He throws her an aggrieved look. “You’re the one who said to ask her!” he cries.
“Well, I didn’t mean now!” Sarah says. “She just found her boss slumped over dead, for
crying out loud. And you want her to host some union rally?”
“Not host it!” Sebastian cries. “Just show up and do a number. Something inspiring. It
doesn’t have to be ‘Kumbaya.’ ‘Sugar Rush’ would be great, too. And it can be unplugged.
We aren’t choosy.”
“God,” Sarah says, shaking her head in disgust. “You are too much sometimes, Sebastian.”
“She keeps saying she’s fine!” Sebastian insists, getting up and throwing his hands in the air.
“Don’t do it, Heather,” Gavin says. “Not unless you feel up to it.”
“I’m not doing it,” I say. “Because I happen to like my job and don’t want to get fired this
week.”
“They would never fire you,” Sebastian explains, in a matter-of-fact way. “For one thing, not
to be tactless, but your boss just got killed. Who would run this place? And for another thing,
if they tried to fire you, that would be a violation of your constitutional right to congregate
and peacefully protest.”
“Dude,” Gavin says. “She so knows it was you who put that fake arm on the elevator.”
“Heather Wells.” The deep voice booms from the open doorway. I look up and see one of
New York’s Finest standing there. “Detective Canavan would like a word.”
“Oh, thank God,” I cry, and fling myself out from behind the desk, and toward the door. You
know things are bad at work when you’re actually relieved to be taken away to be
interviewed by a homicide detective.
But when you work in Death Dorm, those kinds of things happen with alarming frequency.
4
You’re not fat
You’ll be all right
  
Just say no to snacks
And you’ll see the light
“Big Boned”
Written by Heather Wells
Detective Canavan has had his hair cut since I’ve last seen him. It’s been buzzed into a severe
crew cut, so tinged with gray it looks almost blue beneath the fluorescent light above my desk
(I put in a desk lamp for rosy ambience, but the detective’s apparently chosen not to turn it
on. I guess homicide detectives don’t care about rosy ambience). He’s scowling into the
phone he’s clutching to one ear, glancing up at me as I walk in as disinterestedly as if I’m a
rat that’s wandered out from behind some Dumpster.
“Yeah,” Detective Canavan says into the phone. “I know good and well what the city’s gonna
say. They’re happy to shut down a street if someone wants to film an episode of Law &
Order on it. But if the real NYPD wants to launch an investigation on an actual murder…”
The door to Dr. Veatch’s office opens and a CSI type comes out, gnawing on a taco. I can see
that he’s already paid a visit to the caf before stopping by to photograph blood spatter.
“Hey, Heather,” he says, with a wink.
“Oh, hey,” I say. “The caf’s opened for lunch already?”
“Yeah,” he says. “Special’s beef tacos. Oh, and turkey pot pie.”
“Mmmm,” I say longingly. The waffles seem to have been a long time ago.
“I know,” the forensics guy says, with a happy sigh. “I love it when we get called to Death
Dorm.”
“That’s Death Residence Hall,” I correct him.
“You better not be dripping hot sauce on my crime scene again, Higgins,” Detective Canavan
says crankily, as he slams down my phone.
Higgins rolls his eyes and disappears back into Owen’s office.
“So,” Detective Canavan says to me, as I sink into the blue vinyl chair opposite my desk, the
one usually reserved for anorexics, basketball players, and other problem residents. “What
the hell’s going on here, Wells? How come every time I turn my back, someone’s expired at
your place of employment?”
“How should I know?” I demand, every bit as crankily. “I just work here.”
“Yeah,” Detective Canavan growls. “Tell me about it. Well, at least this time, whoever offed
your boss did so from the street, not from inside the building, for a refreshing change. So
where were you this morning, around eight o’clock?”
  
My jaw drops. “I’m a suspect? You’ve got to be kidding me!”
His expression doesn’t change. “You heard me. Where were you?”
“But after all we’ve been through together. You know me!” I cry. “You know I’d never—”
“I already heard about the paper, Wells,” Detective Canavan says shortly.
“The…the paper!” I am, to put it bluntly, flabbergasted. “Oh, come on! You think I’m going
to shoot a guy in the head over a ream of paper?”
“No,” Detective Canavan says. “But I gotta ask.”
“And who even told you?” I demand hotly. “It was Sarah, wasn’t it? I’m going to kill her…”
I swallow, instantly regretting my choice of words, and give a nervous glance at the grate
separating my office from the crime scene. I can hear subtle sounds of activity coming from
behind it, the murmur of measurements being read off, as well as the steady crunching of
tacos.
“Wells.” Detective Canavan, ever phlegmatic, looks bored. “Cut the dramatics. We all know
where you were at eight o’clock this morning. This is just a formality. So please be the team
player we all know you are and say—” He raises his voice to a falsetto that I realize, with an
insult, is apparently meant to be an imitation of my own. “I was in bed around the corner
hitting the snooze alarm, Detective Canavan…” He holds his pen poised over his statement
form, ready to scribble exactly that.
I begin to feel myself blush. Not because I don’t sound anything like that—I don’t think. But
because—well, that wasn’t where I was this morning.
“Um,” I say. “Well…the thing is…That wasn’t where I was this morning. The thing is, um,
this morning, I, um. I went running.”
Detective Canavan drops his pen. “You what?”
“Yeah.” I wonder if, considering how many members of the NYPD are currently swarming
around the Washington Square Park area, looking for evidence in Dr. Veatch’s murder, I
should ask them to keep an eye out for my uterus. You know, just in case they happen to find
a stray one.
“You went running,” Detective Canavan says, in tones of incredulity.
“I’m not trying to lose weight, just get toned,” I say lamely.
Detective Canavan looks as if he’s not about to touch that one with a ten-foot pole. He has,
after all, daughters of his own.
“Well, you must have walked in this direction on your way back to your place to change
before work,” he says. “Did you see anything then? Anything—or anyone—out of the
ordinary?”
  
I swallow again. “Uh. I didn’t change at my place. I changed at…a friend’s.”
Detective Canavan gives me a look. And I do mean a look. “What friend?”
“A…new friend?” I realize I sound like Jamie Price, raising my inflection to an interrogative.
But I can’t help it. Detective Canavan’s scaring me a little. I’ve been involved in plenty of
murders in Fischer Hall before.
But I’ve never been a suspect in any of them before.
Besides, his grilling me like this reminds me of my dad. If my dad had any interest
whatsoever in my personal life. Which, it happens, he does not.
“What new friend?” he demands.
“God!” I cry. It’s a good thing I was born when I was, and hadn’t been a member of the
French Resistance or anything. I’d have cracked under Nazi torture in two seconds. All
they’d have to do was look at me and I’d have spilled every secret I knew. “I’m sleeping with
my remedial math professor, okay? But you can’t tell anybody, or I could get him in big
trouble. Is there any way you can not put his name down in your report? I’ll give it to you, of
course, and you can talk to him, and everything, if you don’t believe me and want to check up
on my story, and all. But if there’s any way you can keep his name out of this, it would be
really, really great….”
Detective Canavan stares at me for a second or two. I can’t tell what he’s thinking. But I can
guess. Grade grubber, I think he’s thinking. Sleeping with the prof for an A…
It turns out I’m wrong though.
“What about Cooper?” he wants to know.
It’s my turn to stare.
“Cooper?” I blink a few times. “What about Cooper?”
“Well.” Detective Canavan looks as confused as I feel. “I thought he was your…you know.
Main squeeze. The cat’s pajamas. Whatever you kids are calling it these days.”
I stare at him, completely horrified. “Main squeeze? Are you eighty?”
“I thought you were warm for his form,” Detective Canavan growls. “You said you were, that
night those frat boys tried to make you into that human sacrifice…”
“I believe those were the roofies speaking,” I remind him primly, hoping he doesn’t notice
how much my blush has deepened. “If I recall correctly, I told you I loved you, too. Also the
planters outside the building. And the paramedics. And the ER doc who pumped my stomach.
As well as my IV stand.”
“Still,” the detective says, looking oddly nonplussed. For him. “I always thought you and
Cooper—”
  
“Yeah,” I say quickly. “Well, you were wrong. I’m with Tad now. Please don’t make things
hard on him by putting it in your report. He’s a nice guy, and I don’t want to do anything that
might jeopardize his getting tenure.” Except bone him repeatedly.
I don’t add this part out loud, of course.
“Uh,” Detective Canavan says. “Of course. So…you didn’t see—or hear—anything when
you were in the park?”
“No,” I say. Inside Dr. Veatch’s office, someone has made a joke—about the Garfield
calendar, perhaps?—and someone else is smothering a laugh.
“Well, what do you know about this Vetch guy?” Detective Canavan wants to know.
“It’s pronounced Veetch,” I correct him.
He blinks at me. “You’re kidding me.”
I smile ruefully. “No. I’m not. I know he was married once. He was getting divorced. That’s
one of the reasons he took the job here. From Iowa, I think.”
“Illinois,” Detective Canavan corrects me.
“Right,” I say. “Illinois.” I fall silent.
He stares at me. “That’s it?”
I try to think. “Once,” I say, “he showed me a page from his Garfield calendar that he thought
was funny. It was a cartoon where Garfield gave the dog—”
“Odie,” Detective Canavan supplies for me.
“Yeah. Odie. He gives Odie a lasagna. And the dog is all happy. But then Garfield leaves the
lasagna out of reach of the dog’s leash. So he can’t get to it.”
“Sick bastard,” Detective Canavan says.
“Who? The cat? Or Dr. Veatch?”
“Both,” Detective Canavan says.
“Yeah,” I agree.
“Can you think of anybody who might have a grudge against him? Veatch, I mean.”
“A grudge? Enough of a grudge to shoot him in the head?” I reach up and run a finger
through my gel-stiffened hair. “No. I don’t know anybody who hated Owen enough to kill
him. Sure, there’re kids who may not be—have been—overly fond of him, but he’s the hall
director. Well, interim hall director. And ombudsman to the president’s office. Nobody’s
supposed to like him. But nobody hated him—not that much. Not that I know of.”
  
Detective Canavan flips through his notebook. “Veatch had anybody fired in the past couple
months?”
“Fired?” I laugh. “This is New York College. No one gets fired. They get transferred.”
“This divorce he was going through. Acrimonious?”
“How should I know?”
Detective Canavan narrows his eyes at me. “Don’t you try to pretend like you don’t sit under
that grate up there and listen to every conversation that goes on inside that office, young lady.
You know good and well whether or not his divorce was acrimonious. Now tell me.”
I sigh. “There was some back-and-forth over the wedding china. That’s it. Seriously. That’s
all I heard.”
Detective Canavan looks disappointed.
“What about this graduate student strike thing? Is it serious?”
“It is to them,” I say, thinking of Sarah. “And it is to the president’s office. If those guys
really do go on strike, the rest of the unions affiliated with the college will be obligated to
strike with them. And then there’ll be an unholy mess…right in time for graduation, too.”
“And Veatch was arbitrating?”
“He was head of the arbitration. But come on,” I say, shaking my head. “Isn’t it more likely
he was hit by a stray bullet from a random drug shooting in the park? I mean, you know. You
have undercover guys out there—”
