“Which is exactly why I know that bullet didn’t hit your boss at random,” Detective Canavan
says woodenly. “My people were out in force, covering—”
“If you say the usual suspects, I’m going to squeal with delight,” I warn him.
He gives me a stern look. “Your boss is dead, Wells. Someone walked up to his office
window and deliberately shot him assassination style, if not point-blank, then as close as.
Someone who knew him, and someone who wanted him dead. It’s my job to figure out who
did it. If you’re too busy with this new boyfriend of yours to quote help the investigation
unquote this time, that’s music to my ears, to tell you the truth. The last thing I need is to
have to worry about plucking your bony ass out of another near-death situation. Now just jot
Romeo’s name down here so I can confirm your story with him later, and you can go.”
I blink at him, feeling suddenly misty-eyed.
“You really think my ass is bony?” I ask. “Detective Canavan, that’s—seriously—the
sweetest thing anyone has ever said to me.”
“Wells,” he says tiredly. “Get out.”
  
Of course I have nowhere to go, since he’s taken over my desk. I can’t go back to the storage
room. I honestly don’t think I can stomach any more power-to-the-people preaching from
Sarah. The scent of tacos wafting from the grate has gotten pretty overwhelming. Sure, it’s
only a little after eleven.
But hey. I ran today. Would it be so wrong to have a little snack?
Magda is sitting at the cash register, perfecting her two-inch robin’s egg blue (in honor of
spring) nails with a sequined file that says PRINCESS on one side of it, and looking bored.
She brightens when she sees me.
“Heather,” she cries. The cafeteria is mostly empty so early in the day. The only people in it
are residents who didn’t wake up in time for breakfast taking advantage of the all-day bagels,
and all the members of the NYPD Magda has waved in for free, who’ve headed straight for
the taco bar. “Is it true? Someone shot that”—she says a bad word in Spanish—“in the
head?”
“Geez, Magda,” I say. “He wasn’t that bad.”
“Oh yes, he was,” Magda assures me. “One time he told me if he caught me giving you free
DoveBars, he was going to write me up. I didn’t tell you, you know, because I didn’t want
you to get upset. But he did. I’m glad he’s dead.”
“Shhhh.” I look around. Over at a nearby table, some of Detective Canavan’s colleagues are
enjoying taco salads with sides of sour cream and guacamole. “Magda, don’t go around
saying that too loudly, okay? I think we’re pretty much all guilty until proven innocent with
this one.”
“So what else is new?” Magda asks, rolling her elaborately made-up eyes. Then those eyes
start to twinkle as she asks, “So things are getting cozy with Mr. Math, eh? I saw you two this
morning in here, feeding each other bites of whipped cream…”
I can’t help scowling. “Things were cozy. Cozy enough that…” I let my voice trail off. So
much had happened since that extremely odd interlude in the shower this morning that I’m
not even exactly sure whether or not it really took place.
But it had. Hadn’t it?
Magda raises her drawn-on eyebrows. “Yes?”
“He wanted to know if I could take a chunk of time off from work this summer,” I say. “Then
he said he has something he wants to ask me. When the timing is right.”
Magda’s mouth drops open. Then she squeals. Then she hops off her stool and runs around
the cashier’s desk in her four-inch heels and throws her arms around me. Since she’s about a
foot short than I am, this means she is basically hugging my waist with her enormously high
hair tickling my nose.
“Heather!” she cries. “I’m so happy for you! You’re going to be such a beautiful bride!”
  
“I don’t know,” I say, uncomfortably conscious of the curious stares turning in our direction.
“I mean, I can’t imagine that’s the question he really wants to ask me. Can you? We’ve only
been going out a few months—”
“But when it’s right, it’s right,” Magda says, letting go of my waist to grab my arms instead,
and give me a little shake. “Mr. Math is no dummy. Not like Cooper.”
That name again. I feel my cheeks heating up, as they seem to always do these days,
whenever my landlord’s name is mentioned.
“So what are you going to say?” Magda wants to know. “You are going to say yes, right?
Heather, you cannot wait for the rest of your life for Cooper to come around. Some men
never do. Like Pete. You know, I once had my eye on him—”
I am poleaxed.
“You like Pete?” I stare at her, as dumbstruck as if she’d just admitted she’s a Scientologist
with an invitation to join Tom and Katie on the spaceship when it shows up. “Our Pete?
Sitting out there at the guard’s desk Pete? Widowed father of four Pete? Insatiable appetite
for panadas Pete?”
“Very funny,” Magda says, giving me a sour look. “Yes, our Pete. But that was a long time
ago, back when his wife first died, and I felt sorry for him, and all of that. Not that it made
any difference. He still has no idea I’m alive. Though how any man could not notice this”—
she waves the robin’s egg blue nails up and down her compact frame, which, though
currently covered in her pink uniform smock, is obviously smoking hot, from the matching
blue toenails peeping out from the hot pink plastic stilettos, to the bleached blond bob that
frames her face—“I don’t know.”
“He’s still transfixed with grief?” I suggest. Although it’s more likely that Pete, like me,
doesn’t have the slightest inkling that Magda has ever looked upon him as anything other
than an amusing dining companion.
“Probably,” Magda says, with a shrug of her curvy shoulders. Then, because a resident with
an advanced state of bed head has come stumbling into the cafeteria, his meal card extended,
she hurries back to her stool, takes the card, swipes it, and with a “Look at my little movie
star! Have a nice brunch, honey,” hands it back to the student, then says to me, “Now. Where
were we?”
“Wait a minute.” I still cannot believe what I’ve just heard. “You liked Pete. Like…like liked
liked him. And he never caught on?”
Magda shrugs. “Maybe if I had strapped panadas to my chest I’d have had more luck.”
“Magda.” I am still in shock. “Did you ever…I don’t know. Think about asking him out?”
“Oh, I asked him out,” Magda says. “Plenty of times.”
“Wait. Where? Where did you guys go?”
  
“To ball games,” Magda says, indignantly. “And to the bar—”
“To the Stoned Crow?” I cry. “Magda! Going out for drinks after work doesn’t count as a
date. And going to college basketball games—especially with a basketball fanatic like you—
doesn’t count, either. You probably spent the entire time screaming at the refs. No wonder he
didn’t get the message. I mean, did you ever tell him?”
“Tell him what?”
“That you like him.”
Magda says something in Spanish and makes the sign of the cross. Then she says, “Why
would I do that?”
“Because that might be the only way a guy like Pete is ever going to realize that you like him
as more than a friend, and, you know”—I shrug—“take it to the next level. Did you ever
think of that?”
Magda holds out her hand, palm toward me. “Please. It’s done, all right? I don’t want to talk
about it. It didn’t happen. I moved on. Let’s get back to you.”
I glare at her some more. Right. She’s moved on. Like my cellulite has moved on.
“Well, fine. Since you asked. So, Tad’s got this question he wants to ask me.
And…meanwhile, Detective Canavan asks where I was this morning at Dr. Veatch’s time of
death, which was apparently the exact time Tad was…well, telling me he had this question to
ask me. So I had to give Detective Canavan Tad’s name, and who knows what he’s going to
do with it. Tad could get into big trouble if it gets out that he’s sleeping with a student.”
Magda lets out a big enough sigh of disgust that those aforementioned bleached blond bangs
fly up into the air. “Please,” she says. “You’re not exactly a tender little freshman. No
offense.”
“Actually, that’s exactly what I am.”
“But you’re old!” Magda exclaims.
I glare at her. “Thanks.”
“You know what I mean. You’re both what-is-it-called. Consenting adults. No one will care.
Well, no one but that Dr. Veatch. And now he’s dead. So that’s that.”
“Will you try not to sound so gleeful when you say that?” I warn her.
“So what are you going to say?” Magda wants to know.
“About what?”
“When he asks you to marry him?” she shouts, loudly enough to cause the bed-headed
student as well as members of the NYPD to look over.
  
“Magda,” I say. “I don’t know. I don’t even know if that’s what he’s going to ask. You
know? I mean, it seems kind of soon—”
“You should say yes,” Magda says, firmly. “It will make Cooper crazy. And then he’ll come
around. Mark my words. I know about these things.”
I say acidly, “If you know so much about these things, how come you and Pete never ended
up together?”
She shrugs. “Maybe it’s for the best. Why do I want to be saddled with kids at my age? I still
got my whole life ahead of me.”
“Magda,” I say. “No offense. But you’re forty.”
“Thirty-nine and a half,” she reminds me. “Oh, shit.”
I look where she’s looking. And echo her curse word inside my head.
Because President Allington, along with his entourage, has finally shown up.
5
No use crying in the dark
A DoveBar won’t fix your broken heart
Put down that ice cream cone
It’s time to do it on your own
“No Use Crying Over Spilled Desserts”
Written by Heather Wells
I consider ducking beneath the cashier’s desk and hiding under Magda’s feet, but this seems
unprofessional.
Instead, I stand my ground, while President Allington—as always inexplicably attired in a
New York College letter jacket, white painter’s pants (although it’s not yet Memorial Day),
and running shoes—enters the cafeteria, flanked on one side by the housing director Dr.
Jessup, and on the other by Dr. Flynn, the department’s on-staff psychologist. All three men
are listening in what appears to be a semistupefied manner to Muffy Fowler, the public
relations guru the college has hired to help deal with press involving the graduate student
union negotiations.
Now, however, Muffy appears to be doing damage control on Dr. Veatch’s murder.
“Well, you just have to get them out of here, Phil,” Muffy is saying, in her strong Southern
accent, as the four of them walk in. “This is private property, after all.”
  
“Actually,” Dr. Flynn says, his voice completely toneless. “New York City sidewalks are not
private property.”
“Well, you know what I mean,” Muffy says. I can’t help noticing that every male eye in the
room is on her. The thirty-something-year-old former beauty queen (no, really. It said so on
her CV in The Pansy, the newsletter that is distributed to all New York College
administrators once a month) wears her chestnut brown hair in a large poufy helmet around
her head—known in a previous decade as a bouffant, in this one as…I don’t even know—and
shows off her slim figure to an advantage by sporting a pencil skirt and high heels.
I guess I can see why every guy in the vicinity is so attracted to the vivacious, well-coiffed
Ms. Fowler—at least until she opens her mouth.
“We don’t want to send one of those rent-a-cops ya’ll like to call security, either, to just shoo
them away,” Muffy says. “Freedom of the press, and all. We need to take a more delicate
approach to this. I think we should send a woman. Someone from the administrative staff.”
I can feel my spine going cold. I have no idea what she’s talking about, but all I can think is
No. For the love of all that is holy.
“We’ve arranged for a grief counselor for any Fischer Hall residents who might feel they
need to talk to one,” Dr. Jessup is tr ying to tell the president. “Dr. Kilgore is on her way. And
since news of the murder’s already been all over the local radio stations and New York One,
we’re encouraging students to call their parents to let them know they’re all right…”
We are? Wow, you miss a lot when you’re an actual suspect in a murder, as opposed to an
innocent bystander, like I usually am.
But President Allington isn’t listening to Dr. Jessup. Maybe that’s because all of his attention
is focused on Muffy—possibly because she’s managed to snag her ginormous diamond
cocktail ring on a loose thread attached to the gold letters NY stitched onto one side of his
jacket.
“Oh my goodness,” Muffy laughs. “I gotcha good, didn’t I, Phil? Don’t move an inch now,
we’re dealin’ with a three-carat canary diamond here…”
Dr. Allington stands there looking down at the top of Muffy’s helmet head and laughs in a
manner that can only be called foolish. I glance at Magda and see that she is staring at the
president and public relations manager as if they’ve just beamed down from another planet. I
sort of understand her astonishment. It’s true that ever since an attempt on her life in this very
building, Mrs. Allington spends most of her time at the couple’s Hamptons home.
Still, you’d think her husband would be a little less obviously delighted to be receiving so
much attention from a member of the opposite sex. Even one as attractive as Muffy Fowler.
“Wasn’t that funny?” Muffy asks the room in general, when she finally manages to
disentangle herself from the president. Not that anyone seems to have been laughing. Except
her and “Phil.” Although, to be truthful, everyone is staring at her now—even all the women.
“Now, where were we? Oh, right. Do you have someone you can send outside to deal with
the press, Stan? Someone who can act caring?”
  
“Well,” Dr. Jessup begins. “We can always send Gillian, when she gets here. But wouldn’t
that be something you, Ms. Fowler, might want to do, seeing as how the university hired you
to—”
But before Dr. Jessup can finish, President Allington’s gaze falls upon me…just as, deep
down inside, I’d known it would, somehow. I mean, really. Isn’t that the story of my life? Got
a really unsavory task? Why not send Heather Wells to do it? She lost her uterus in the park
this morning, after all. It’s not like she’s of any use to society anymore anyway.
“Oh, Jessica,” Dr. Allington says, coming momentarily out of his Muffy-induced stupor and
recognizing me as the girl who once saved his wife’s life. Or something like that. “Jessica’s
here. Why can’t Jessica do it?”
For reasons that will never be clear to me, President Allington thinks I’m Jessica Simpson.
No. Really. No matter how many times people (including me) tell him I’m not.
“Now, Phil,” Dr. Flynn says. Dr. Flynn has always been a stand-up guy. Possibly because he
doesn’t live on campus, but manages to keep a sense of perspective by commuting in every
day from the suburbs. “That’s Heather. Remember? And Heather’s had a hard day. She’s the
one who found Owen—”
“She did? You.” Muffy looks at me and snaps her fingers. “You’re the one who found him?”
I exchange wild-eyed glances with Magda. “Um. Yes?”
“Perfect.” Muffy grabs me by the arm. “Come with me.”
“Muffy.” Dr. Flynn looks alarmed. “I really don’t think—”
“Oh, hush,” Muffy says.
No, really. She actually says this.
“Ms. Fowler.” Dr. Jessup seems wearier than usual. He looks slightly pale beneath his Aspen
tan. “I’m not sure—”
“Oh, why, I never in my life saw such a bunch of fussbudgets,” Muffy declares, in a mockly
scandalized tone. “Jessica and I are just going to have ourselves a little bit of girl talk,
nothing you need to worry your little heads about. Ya’ll get yourselves some coffee and I’ll
be back in just a little bit. Come on, Jessica.”
The next thing I know, she’s leading me out of the cafeteria and out into the lobby, one arm
around my shoulders, the other around my wrist.
That’s right. She has me in a sorority girl death grip.
“Listen, Jessica,” she’s saying, as we head outside, her eyes glittering with a brighter
intensity than any of the gemstones on her fingers and earlobes. “I just want you to say a few
words to the reporters we’ve got hanging around out here. Just a few words about how
  
devastatin’ it was findin’ Owen’s body, and all. Do you think you can do that for me,
Jessica?”
“Um,” I say. Her breath smells like she just swallowed an entire Listerine Pocket Pak. “My
name’s Heather.”
Outside, the spring sky is still as blue as it had been when I’d lost my uterus, just a few hours
earlier. It’s unseasonably warm—a hard morning for anyone to spend in an office, or
slouched in front of a chalkboard, or, you know, at a crime scene. True, the drug dealers have
scattered thanks to the strong police presence over by Fischer Hall.
But that doesn’t mean there aren’t plenty of people milling around, staring at all the news
vans that are parked illegally along the west side of the park, crowding the sidewalk and
blocking traffic.
It’s toward these news vans that Muffy begins steering me—even though I put on the brakes,
pronto.
“Uh,” I say. “I don’t think this is the best idea…”
“Are you kidding me?” Muffy demands. For such a skinny little thing, she’s pretty strong.
Obviously, she works out. That’s always the way with these Southern belles. They look like a
puff of wind could blow them away, but in reality, they can bench-press more than your
boyfriend. “What could get their minds off this strike thing faster than the teary-eyed blond
who found her boss with a bullet through his skull? Do you think you could—”
“OW!” I shriek, as she wrenches some of the fat on my upper arm, hard, between her thumb
and forefinger. “What’d you do that for? That really hurt!”
“Good, now your eyes are waterin’,” Muffy says. “Keep it up. Boys! Oh, boys! Over here!
This gal here found the body!”
The next thing I know, fifty microphones are being thrust into my face, and I find myself
explaining tearfully—because, yes, that pinch really did hurt. I’ll be lucky if it doesn’t leave a
bruise—that though I didn’t really work with Owen Veatch all that long, or know him that
well, he is going to be missed, and that, whatever his stand on the graduate student
compensation package, he didn’t deserve to die that way, or any way. And, yes, I am that
Heather Wells.
It isn’t until I notice, holding court in the center of the chess circle, a familiar frizzy-haired
girl in overalls that I realize what’s behind Muffy Fowler’s feeding me to the wolves in this
fashion: Sarah had been out here, using Dr. Veatch’s death and the publicity around it as an
opportunity to promote the GSC’s agenda.
Now that I’ve stolen her limelight, Sarah’s consulting with some equally scruffy-looking
individuals—not including the ones who are there actually to play chess, and who are looking
extremely annoyed at having their territory invaded by all these long-haired, hippie types—
including Sebastian. He keeps sending me dark looks that I try not to take personally, but that
clearly peg me as The Man…although I barely make a living wage myself. And I certainly
wasn’t the one who decided to cut the grad students’ compensation package.
  
Then again, maybe he’s just still sore at me for not agreeing to sing “Kumbaya” at his rally.
“So you can’t think of anyone who’d have reason to kill your boss?” a reporter from Channel
4 wants to know.
“No,” I say. “I really can’t. He was a nice guy.” Well, except for the Garfield thing, which,
really, bordered on a sickness. So you can’t actually blame him for it. “Quiet. But nice.”
“And you don’t think the GSC could be in any way responsible?”
“I really don’t have a comment about that.” Although my personal feeling is that the GSC
couldn’t organize a bake sale, let alone a murder.
“All right,” Muffy says, reaching through the crowd of reporters to take my arm. “That’s
enough questions for now. Miss, er, Wells is exhausted from her horrifying and gruesome
discovery—”
“One last question,” the Fox News reporter cries. “Heather, anything you want to say to your
ex-boyfriend, former Easy Street band member Jordan Cartwright, now that he and his wife,
superstar Tania Trace, are expecting?”
“Miss Wells is done,” Muffy says, pulling me off the rickety wooden platform one of the
news stations had generously rigged for me to stand on. “I’d appreciate it if ya’ll would pack
up and go on home now and let the police do their work and these students get on to class—”
I wrench my arm from her grasp. “Wait a minute.” To the reporter, I say, “Tania’s pregnant?”
“You didn’t see the announcement?” The reporter looks bored. “Posted it on her website this
morning. Got a statement? Congratulations? Best wishes? Anything like that?”
Jordan’s going to be a father? My God.
My dog would make a better father than he would.
And she’s a girl. And a dog.
“Uh,” I say. “Yeah. Both. Congratulations. Best wishes. Mazel tov. All that.”
It seems like I should say something more meaningful than that, though. After all, Jordan and
I dated for nearly ten years. He was my first kiss, my first love, my first…yeah, that, too.
Maybe I should say something, I don’t know. About the circle of life and death? Yeah. Yeah,
that sounds good. “Um. It just goes to show when one life is snuffed out, another—”
“Come on,” Muffy says, hauling ass. My ass, to be exact.
“God,” I murmur, as she pulls me along. “I can’t believe it. My ex is having a baby.”
“Welcome to my world,” Muffy says. “Mine just had twins.”
  
I look at her in surprise. “Really? That’s—that’s weird, right? I mean, wasn’t it weird? Am I
wrong to think that’s weird? Is your ex a loser? Because mine’s a huge loser. And it’s weird
to think of him being responsible for another human life.”
“Mine’s the CEO of a major investment firm back in Atlanta,” Muffy says, keeping her face
turned straight ahead, “who left me for my maid of honor the night before our wedding. So
yeah, I guess you could say I think it’s weird. In the same way I think it’s weird that millions
of little tiny babies in Africa starve to death every year while I freak out if my barista uses
full fat instead of nonfat foam in my morning latte. Why didn’t you tell me you were Heather
Wells, the former teen pop sensation?”
“I tried,” I say lamely.
“No.” Muffy skids to a stop in her Manolos just outside the building’s front door and stabs an
accusing index finger at me. “All you said was that your name wasn’t Jessica. I do not
appreciate bein’ kept in the dark. Now, what else are you not tellin’ me? Do you know who
killed that man?”
I gape down at her. I have a good five inches on her, but she makes me feel as if I’m the one
who has to look up at her.
“No!” I cry. “Of course not! Don’t you think that if I did, I’d have told the police?”
“I don’t know,” Muffy says. “Maybe ya’ll were havin’ an affair.”
“EW!” I yell. “DID YOU EVEN KNOW OWEN?”
“I did,” Muffy replies, calmly. “Simmer down. I was just askin’.”
“And you think I was sleeping with him. Me.”
“Stranger things have happened,” Muffy points out. “This is New York City, after all.”
And suddenly a lot of things become clear: how Muffy’s ring became “accidentally” attached
to President Allington’s jacket; why she’d ever think I might have been after Owen Veatch;
what the pencil skirt and high heels were all about; what she’s doing in New York City in the
first place, so far from her native Atlanta.
Look, I’m not here to make judgments. To each his (or her) own, and all of that.
But the idea of any woman moving to New York and entering the workforce with the express
purpose of snagging a husband is sort of…well. Gross.
Who knows what I might have said to Ms. Muffy Fowler if at that very moment something
hadn’t happened to distract me? Something so momentous (to me, anyway) that all further
thought of conversation with her flees my brain, and I forget I’m standing in front of Fischer
Hall, the sight of another major crime scene, and the place in which I regularly consume way
more than my governmentally advised daily calorie allowance.
  
And that’s the sight of my landlord, semi-employer, and love of my life, Cooper Cartwright,
hurrying up to me, panting, “I came as soon as I heard. Are you okay?”
6
Watching jets cross the midday sky
Disappearing in the bright sun’s eyes
Think of the Biscoffs t hey’re unwrappin’
Wish I could have my own to snack on
“You Can Buy Biscoff Online”
Written by Heather Wells
“Well, hello, there.”
That’s what Muffy Fowler says to Cooper after she turns to look at him. The next thing I
know, she’s pivoted her weight to one hip and propped a hand to her infinitesimally small
waist, her doe-eyed gaze going from the toes of Cooper’s running shoes (well, he’s a private
detective after all. One assumes he often has to run after people, such as bad guys and…I
don’t know. Perps. Or something) to the top of his dark, slightly-in-need-of-a-haircut head.
“Uh.” Cooper looks from me to Muffy and then back again. “Hi.”
“Muffy Fowler.” Muffy sticks out her hand—the cocktail ring (which I now realize is the
engagement ring from her called-off wedding) glinting in the noonday sun—and Cooper
takes it in his to shake. “New York College public relations. And you are?”
“Uh, Cooper Cartwright,” he says. “Friend of Heather’s. I was wondering if I could speak
with her for a few minutes?”
“Of course!” Muffy holds on to his hand a little too long—like she thinks I won’t notice—
then flashes me a smile and says, “You take as long as you need, now, Heather, you hear? I’ll
just be right inside with President Allington if you want anything.”
I stare at her. Why is she talking to me like she’s my supervisor—or sorority sister—or
something?
“Um,” I say slowly. “Sure thing…Muffy.”
She gives me a quick but supportive hug—enveloping me not just in her arms, but in a cloud
of Chanel No. 19—then hurries into the building. Cooper stares at me.
“What,” he says, “was that.” It’s not exactly a question.
“That,” I say, “was Muffy. She introduced herself. Remember?”
  
“Yeah,” he says. “I noticed. I thought it might have been a hallucination.” He glances over
his shoulder at the press, who, far from taking Muffy’s advice and packing up to go home, are
stopping students as they cross the street, trying to get back to Fischer Hall for lunch after
class, to ask them if they knew Owen Veatch and how they feel about his brutal and untimely
death. “This is unbelievable. Are you all right?”
“Yeah,” I say, in some surprise. “I’m fine. Why?”
“Why?” Cooper looks down at me, a very sarcastic expression on his face. “Gosh, I don’t
know. Maybe because someone shot your boss in the head this morning?”
I’m touched. Seriously. I can’t believe he cares. I mean, I know he cares.
But I can’t believe he cares enough to come over personally and check up on me. Granted,
the Sixth Precinct’s taken over my office and I was being interviewed by Fox News so it
wasn’t like I was picking up my cell.
But still. It’s nice to know Cooper’s got my back.
“So what do you know about this guy?” he wants to know, balancing a foot against one of the
planters the residents routinely use as ashtrays, despite my well-placed and artful signage
exhorting them not to. “Anyone you know of might have reason to want him dead?”
If one more person asks me this, I seriously think my head might explode.
“No,” I say. “Except Odie.”
Cooper looks at me oddly. “Who?”
“Never mind,” I say. “Look, I don’t know. Everybody and his brother has asked me this. If I
knew, don’t you think I’d have said something? I barely talked to the guy, Coop. I mean, we
worked together for a few months, and all, but it’s not like he was my friend—not like
Tom”—my last boss, with whom I still meet regularly for after-work beers at the Stoned
Crow. “I mean, aside from this whole GSC fiasco, I can’t think of a single person who had
something against Owen Veatch. He was just…bland.”
Cooper blinks down at me. “Bland.”
I shrug helplessly. “Exactly. Like vanilla. I mean, for someone to hate you enough to kill you,
you at least have to…I don’t know. Have done something. Something interesting. But there
was nothing remotely interesting about Owen. Seriously.”
Cooper glances across the street, at the reporters and their vans with the satellite dishes
sticking up out of the roofs. Standing to one side of the vans, still in the chess circle—but on
the outer rim of the chess circle, because the old guard who ruled the chess circle have finally
gotten fed up with them, and thrown them out—is Sarah and her GSC posse, including a
slouching Sebastian, muttering darkly amongst themselves because the reporters have gotten
all the sound bites they need from them, and won’t interview them anymore.
  
“And you don’t think any of those characters could have had anything to do with it?” Cooper
asks, nodding in Sarah’s direction.
I roll my eyes. “Puh-lease. Them? They’re all, like, vegetarians. You think any one of them
could have the guts to shoot some guy in the head? They don’t even eat eggs.”
“Still,” Cooper says. “With Veatch out of the way…”
“Nothing changes,” I say. “The administration still isn’t going to budge. If anything, the GSC
has lost the only voice of reason they had in this crazy mess. Now…” I shudder. “God,
Cooper. If there’s a strike, there’ll be no end to the trouble around here.”
Cooper looks thoughtful. “And who stands to benefit if there’s a strike?”
I glance up at him. “Who stands to benefit if there’s a strike? No one. Are you crazy?”
“Someone always benefits from murder,” Cooper says, still looking thoughtful. “Always.”
“Well,” I say dryly. “I don’t see who’s going to benefit from having three feet of garbage
piled up everywhere…and toilets backed up…and no security…because if the grad student
union strikes, the housekeeping and security unions have to strike out of sympathy, as well.
It’s part of their agreement. This place will be a zoo.”
“Private sanitation companies will have to pick up the slack,” Cooper says, nodding. “Private
security and housekeeping companies, as well. Could be exactly what the owners of those
companies were waiting for. Little mid-year pick-me-up.”
I gape at him while the meaning of his words sinks in. “Wait. You think…you think Owen’s
murder was a MOB HIT?”
He shrugs. “Wouldn’t be unheard of. It’s New York City, after all.”
“But…but…” I stand there, flabbergasted. “I’ll never figure out who killed him if it was a
MOB HIT!”
Which is when Cooper drops his foot from the planter and swings around to grasp both my
shoulders in a grip that, I won’t lie to you, hurts a little. Next thing I know, I’m pressed up
against the red bricks Fischer Hall is made up of, my now mostly dry hair plastered against
the circa 1855 plaque to one side of the front door.
“Don’t you even think about it,” Cooper says.
He isn’t shouting. He isn’t even speaking above a normal conversational tone, really.
He’s just very, very serious. More serious than I’ve ever seen him. Even that time when I
accidentally dried his favorite sweatshirt from college and shrank it to a size small. His face
is just a few inches from mine. It’s so close, it’s blocking out the blue sky overhead, and the
leafy green canopy of trees below that, and the satellite dishes on top of the news vans, as
well as the line of taxis going by on Washington Square West, and the stream of students
  
walking into the building, going, “What’s with all the cops over there on Waverly?
Somebody jump, or something?”
“God,” I say nervously, noticing from Cooper’s razor stubble that he apparently hadn’t had
time to shave this morning. And wondering what it would be like to run my hand across that
razor stubble. Which is ridiculous, because I already have a boyfriend. Who proposed to me
this morning. Well, practically. “I was only kidding.”
“No,” Cooper says, his blue-eyed gaze never leaving mine. “You weren’t, actually. And this
one, Heather, you’re staying out of. This wasn’t a student. You didn’t even like the guy. This
one’s not your responsibility.”
Dorothy. From Golden Girls. We’re both Dorothy, from Golden Girls.
It’s weird what goes through your head when the lips belonging to guy you’re in love with
are just inches from your own. Especially, you know, when you’re sleeping with someone
else.
“Um,” I say, unable to tear my gaze from his mouth. “Okay.”
“I mean it this time, Heather,” Cooper says. His fingers tighten on my shoulders. “Stay out of
it.”
“I will.” My eyes have, inexplicably, filled with tears. Not because he’s hurting me—his
grip’s not that tight. But because I can’t help thinking of Magda and Pete. How much time
have the two of them wasted, when they could have been together? When really, all that’s
kept them apart is Pete’s basic male cluelessness…and Magda’s female pride. I mean, if Pete
likes Magda back. Which I’m almost sure he does. Maybe if I just tell Cooper how I feel…
“Cooper.”
“I’m serious, Heather. This guy may have been into stuff you have no idea—no earthly
idea—about. Do you understand me?”
True, I’d tried telling him before. But he’d mentioned something about not wanting to be my
rebound guy.
Hadn’t Tad proven more than adequate in this position, however?
Still. Poor Tad! How could I do this to him? He has that question he wants to ask me, after
all.
But come on. Tad doesn’t even own a TV! Could I seriously be entertaining the idea of
spending the rest of my life with a guy who wants me to run five kilometers with him every
morning, avoids all meat and meat by-products, and doesn’t even own his own television?
No. Just…no.
“Cooper.”
  
“Just let it go. All right? Any thought you might have of solving your boss’s murder
yourself? Give it up right now.”
“Cooper!”
He loosens his grip on my shoulders and unhitches his own a little. “What?”
“There’s something I’ve been wanting to talk to you about,” I say, after taking a deep breath.
I’ve got to do this. I’ve just got to swallow my pride and tell Cooper how I feel. Granted,
standing outside my place of work the day of my boss’s murder may not be the best place or
time. But where is the best place, and when is the best time, really, to tell the guy you love
unrequitedly that you love him unrequitedly? After you’ve already accepted a marriage
proposal from another guy?
“What is it?” Cooper asks, looking suspicious—as if he thinks I might break into some song
and dance about how it’s important for the sake of my employment that I personally look into
my boss’s murder.
“I,” I begin nervously, feeling as if my heart has suddenly leaped into my throat. He has to
have noticed, right? Between my madly throbbing pulse and the tears in my eyes, he has to
know something is up, right? “The thing is, I—”
“Heather!”
I jerk my head around in surprise as a familiar figure lopes toward us from West Fourth
Street. It’s Tad, his long blond ponytail bobbing behind him, a white paper sack in either
hand.
Oh God. Not now. Not now.
“Heather,” he says, when he reaches us. His eyes, behind his gold-rimmed glasses, are
concerned, his expression worried. “I just heard. Oh my God, I’m so sorry. You weren’t there
when it happened, were you? Oh, hi, Cooper.”
“Hi,” Cooper says.
And then, as if suddenly becoming aware that they were still resting there, he drops his hands
from my shoulders and takes a step away from me. He looks almost…well. Guilty.
Which is absurd, because it wasn’t like we were doing anything to feel guilty about. Well, I
was about to confess my undying love for him.
But he doesn’t know that.
“I came as soon as I heard,” Tad says to me. “About your boss, I mean.” He glances over at
the news vans. “Looks like they’re out in full force, huh? The vultures.” He heaves a shudder,
then hands me one of the paper bags. “Here. I picked up some lunch for us.”
  
I take the bag he’s offering, touched by the gesture. I guess. “Oh, you did? Tad, that’s so
sweet…”
“Yeah, I stopped by the student center and picked up two three-bean salads,” Tad says,
wrapping an arm around my shoulders. “And a couple of protein shakes. I figured you might
need something high in nutrients after the shock you had—and we had that awful
breakfast…”
“Uh.” Three-bean salad? Is he kidding? Do I look like a girl who could use a three-bean salad
right about now? Three-bean bowl of chili with about a pound of melted cheddar cheese on
top would be more like it.
And our breakfast hadn’t been awful at all. Unless he means awfully delicious.
Still, trying to be gracious, I say, “Thank you so much, Tad.”
“Sorry I didn’t get you anything, Cooper,” Tad says, with a rueful smile. “I didn’t know you
were going to be here.”
“Oh,” Cooper says affably. “That’s okay. I filled up on three-bean salad earlier.”
Tad grins, knowing Cooper is joking, then adds, “Oh, and hey…congratulations. On being an
uncle. Well, future uncle.”
Cooper looks confused. “Excuse me?”
