9 Letter from Henry A Benson, Commissioner of the State Department of Labor, to Ernest N. Patty , President, University of Alaska, 8/27/1947, provides an excellent representation of this mindset: “For some time several Territorial agencies have been concerned with the lack of development of our rural areas…” 
Nevertheless, agrarian idealism persisted in the state, particularly in respect to “white-man’s burden” for the education of Alaska Natives (Gerlach 1996; Hinckley 1966). In Northwest Alaska, also in the late 1800s, famine precipitated at least in part by a depletion of whale stocks by Yankee whalers prompted a plan by Presbyterian minister Sheldon Jackson to import Reindeer herding to the imperiled Eskimo communities as a mechanism of economic aid and industrial education (Gerlach 1996; Bockstoce 1986). The venture started what would evolve into an all-Alaska agricultural office of the BIA, coined the “Reindeer Service” (Archives 1975; Postell 1990). Village gardening projects also emerged under the jurisdiction of the Reindeer Service as similar mechanisms of economic development. It was generally believed, by BIA administrators, schoolteachers, missionaries, etc., that Alaska Natives had an apathy towards the “obvious comforts” of white people, and that the subsistence lifestyle was an irrational and unnecessary subservience to the nuances of nature, thought of as wrong, backwards, and reflective of a general lack of understanding the natives had toward their “situation” (Agatha 1965; Hinckley 1966; Postell 1990). Real social and economic security, or so these colonial minds believed, was to be had in cultivating the land and the development a cash economy. The BIA and University of Alaska (a USDA land grant institution) were both involved in aggressive rural development9 throughout the first half of the 20th century, 23 he says, which “competent observers in every rural district” report as driven by (among a list of symptoms) the lack of skills, ignorance of the use of money, and nothing to do with their free time. 
File 916, GS;GSC;RR;RG75;NAPA. 
10 Letter from Allan H. Mick, Dean & Director of the U of A Cooperative Extension Service, to Glen Emmons, Indian Commissioner of the US Department of the Interior, dated 4/1/1954; Mr. Mick expressed his desire to expand the CES’s jurisdiction to include Native communities, but not wanting to duplicate the work of the ANS. File 916, Garden Subsistence;GSC;RR;RG75;NAPA. 
Shortly thereafter, on June 4, 1954, a U.S. Senate sub-committee hearing on Indian Affairs passed U.S. Senate Bill 3385, which transferred responsibility for village gardening initiatives from the BIA to the CES. Note however that ANS schoolteachers continued to be the facilitators and record-keepers for these initiatives in some communities as late as the1970s. 
therefore, with programs such as the reindeer herding mentioned above, the Alaska Native Arts Clearinghouse (which tried to stimulate economic growth through the production and management of Native arts and crafts for export), and family and community gardens implemented and administered by the Alaska Native Service. Later, as the extension office of the University of Alaska expanded to serve more than just Alaska’s Euro-American constituency10, the responsibility for village agricultural development became a shared one between ANS school teachers, the extension service and 4-H. 
1.6 BIA RECORDS 
The U.S. National Archives, Pacific Alaska Region Office holds a significant collection of records regarding these gardening practices, filed under ‘Record Group 75: The Bureau of Indian Affairs, Alaska Reindeer Service’. Annual food and garden surveys were officially requested of ANS teachers by the BIA beginning in 1941; a circular letter sent from V.R. Farrell, Director of Education for the BIA to all ANS schoolteachers described the need for these inventories: 24 11 V.E. Farrel, Director of Education, Office of Indian Affiars, Juneau, AK, to “Teachers”; File 917, Ag. Statistics & Production: Beaver 1933-66; Agricultural Hunting & Fishing Statistics: Afognak – Fort Yukon; RR; RG75; NAPA. 
12 File 917, Agricultural Hunting & Fishing Statistics: Afognak – Fort Yukon (AHF1), Kwinglillingok - Scammon Bay (AHF2), and Selawik-Yakutat (AHF3); RR; RG75; NAPA. 
It is important that we have a survey of the quantity of garden vegetables and other locally available foods produced and stored during the current season. Garden seeds supplied by the Government should be regarded as educational supplies in the same sense as home economics, and shop supplies, and it is desirable that some measure be made of the extent to which they are utilized. … Too much emphasis cannot be placed on the desirability of having Native people collect and store maximum quantities of fish, berries, meat and other locally available food products.11
Each year, teachers were required to fill out surveys of “Native Food” and of “Garden Activity” (Figures 1.8 and 1.9) 12. The native food reports provide detailed subsistence-food data for each of the villages in the flats, from five to as many as 25 years regarding the annual harvest of caribou, moose, berries, fish, waterfowl and small mammals, with detail about the pounds harvested, methods of storage, and quantities remaining after winter. The office was very diligent in its record keeping, and they were used, at least in part, to both anticipate and respond to food shortages. The garden surveys provide similarly extensive detail regarding each village’s gardening projects, including details regarding fertilizer used, method(s) of cultivation, and crop quantities and varieties planted and harvested. Schoolteachers also used these forms to make a wide range of commentary about the community, environment, even politics. One teacher in the village 25 
13 C.W. Holland, ANS Schoolteacher, ‘Annual Survey of Native Food’; File 917, Ag. Statistics & Production: Minto 1941-63; AHF2; RR; RG75; NAPA. 
of Minto remarked in 1944 that the food supply for winter that year was “inadequate because too many boys entered the war for [the] big wages. Increase supply by stopping the war.”13
      These documents represent the majority of the reference material used as the basis for this research. Table 1.1 contains some summary information for these records for each community, including population averages, range of garden production, and comments (made by me) where applicable. A more detailed transcription of these records is available on the CD found in the pocket of this thesis. In the early to middle 1900s, gardening was to some extent regularly practiced among all of the Native communities in the flats, with Arctic Village being the most common exception because of climate and landscape challenges. To provide a better picture of the information contained in these records, I will summarize them here for the villages of Arctic Village, Beaver, Fort Yukon, Minto, Stevens Village and Venetie. The configurations of cropping included 4-H school gardens, family gardens (very informal, often unfenced bits of land that often went unweeded, and in some cases just randomly planted potato plants), as well as more structured community gardens. The reported levels of Native participation and total crop yields varied greatly from year to year, and the details of this variation provide conflicting information. In general, these villages gardens all favored root-crop production (especially potato), but a wide variety of produce was grown, most commonly including (but not limited to) beans, beets, cabbage, carrots, celery, chard, kale, lettuce, peas, radishes, rutabagas, and turnips (see table 2 for some information on the most 26 commonly suggested crop varieties). Much of the information presented is synthesized from these records, but this paper is also informed by data for these communities as compiled by Andrews (1988), Caulfield (1983), and Sumida (1989), (among others, all cited appropriately) as well as from one-on-one interviews with Native Elders of the Minto community. 
1.6.1 Arctic Village 1960-1964 
For three of the four years that Arctic Village is represented in the archives, the school teachers reported that the existing food supplies were not sufficient for the coming winter. The village people depended “entirely on caribou,” though they had a desire to grow gardens. Such initiatives were hindered by the extreme cold, however; teacher Marie B. Mott suggested in 1960 and again in 1961 that plastic could be used, but that the natives had no income to purchase such supplies. Frederic Goranson, her successor, likewise didn’t see the possibilities in the village, claiming in his 1963 report that the “short growing season and variable summers makes gardening a risky proposition.” The BIA maintained a list of villages where gardening was considered practically impossible (see the section later on Venetie), and for which, therefore, garden surveys were no longer requested. As most of the documentation for these villages end in the late 1960s, however, it is impossible to glean from the small set of Arctic Village records if this was the case, or if gardening attempts continued past 1964. 27 
14 Many teachers did not fill out garden reports for years where there was no production. Often the lack of submission is reflected in the records by a telegram from the BIA office requesting the missing material, though the reports themselves never seem to have been completed. 
1.6.2 Beaver 1940-1967 
The first garden records for the village of Beaver (1940-41) reported that over 4 acres of land were in cultivation, though a dry season had made for poor crop production. That year 5800 lbs of produce were harvested, used by all 27 families in the village. This level of output remains somewhat consistent (4000-5000 lbs) for over 20 years, with exceptions in the 1954-55 and 1958-59 seasons (600 lbs and 0 lbs respectively.) Interestingly, these same two years are either absent from the record of all the other villages surveyed,14 or report little-to-no production as a result of “discouraging weather.” In 1963 spring floodwaters washed out the gardens, limiting production to about 1000 lbs. These low numbers continue through the final 3 reports; teacher Sue Price in 1965 attributes the lack of interest in gardening to contentment to rely on “welfare and pension checks,” and her successor, Nelson M. Page says in 1967 that there’s just a general lack of interest in gardening in Beaver. 
1.6.3 Fort Yukon 1941-1958 
As mentioned in the introductory section on agriculture in Alaska, the people of Fort Yukon are known to have been growing gardens since at least the turn of the 20th century. For the period covered by these records, production was between 17,000-30,000 lbs of produce from a total of 4-5 acres of small family gardens as well as a community garden plot, from which 15-30 families were eating. In 1958, Lydia Fohn-Hansen, 28 Associate Director for Home Demonstration Work, UA Cooperative Extension Service, wrote that all 28 families grew enough potatoes to feed 650 people for a year. The only exception to this was 1941 where 8 families produced 3000 lbs of vegetables. Fort Yukon gardeners consistently used some form of fertilizer: lime was used in1941, replaced by commercial fertilizers such as “Vigoro” and “Mor-Crop” in later years. Corrosive sublimate (mercuric chloride) was also used by some as an insecticide. Despite the consistent garden success, numbers did not seem to please the ANS teachers – an attitude common among all the villages (for example, see Figure 1.7 for the letter that accompanied the 1957 report in which Alice S. Wilson reported 25,000 lbs of potatoes as only “fair.”) 
1.6.4 Minto 1941-1963 
Though many in Minto grew their own gardens (Olson 1981), unlike Fort Yukon (for which years of low garden activity were the exception) production under 1000lbs was the rule. 1943 stands out, with 8750 lbs of produce, up by a factor of 10 from the previous year, though output dropped again to 800 lbs the following year. Minto was very flood-prone, however, mentioned in reports by teachers C.W. Holland and Essie Lawson, and confirmed by Elders in the community as the biggest difficulty their gardens faced. Indeed the community eventually moved to a new location in 1969 because of the frequent flooding and erosion problem. Repeated years of relative failure post- 1943 seems to be the major factor behind the general lack of interest in the activity. Some interviewees, however, also suggest that interpersonal relationships between community 29 members and ANS teachers had played a role; Jens H. Forshaug, teacher in Minto in 1953 and 1954, apparently had notably poor relationships with community members, especially the children. In Mr. Forshaug’s 1954 report, he stated that the local people “should have [gardens] if they were more ambitious”; a sentiment for which he is remembered most by Minto residents for not keeping to himself. Since he was in charge of the gardens, many people opted-out. 
1.6.5 Stevens Village 1941-1967 Stevens Village has an interesting set of documents that contribute another aspect to this discussion; in particular, how the community integrated gardening into their larger annual and multi-annual cycles of subsistence activities, where gardening was practiced in some years, but not in others. In her 1941 garden report, teacher Dorothy Henry stated: 
We are told that the reason gardens are not cultivated is because of the ratting season. That time is usually is from March 1st to May 31st. After ratting season the Natives return to town and stay long enough to get supplies then go to fish camp. This coming spring is the peak of the ratting season, the following years will show a decrease. Families will then stay in town, some will then make gardens as in previous years. 
As predicted, gardening activity picked up in 1948 (1000lbs by 6 families), up to nearly 4000 lbs grown by all 12 families in 1952. Prior, the muskrat trapping, or “ratting” season, had kept people away from their village during the weeks they would otherwise need for preparing and planting their gardens. The ratting season was a 3 month segment 30 of the annual seasonal round for many Interior Athabascan communities, which immediately followed winter trapping (Sumida 1989). Each family had its own “rat camp,” and entire families, men, women and children, were involved in the hunting and trapping activities. Even if some people remained in the villages, gardening in Stevens Village was labor-intensive and required frequent hauling of water from the Yukon. In more recent years the practice has been dramatically scaled back, first to a separate 3-4 week spring trip in May to these traditional rat camps (1940s, 50s), and most recently only survives as a handful of day-long or overnight excursions (Nelson 1986; Schneider 1976; Sumida 1989). This change in strategy correlates with the population ecology of muskrats, which follows a multi-decadal cycle of expansion and contraction, whereby the muskrat population is influenced at least in part by some very nasty plant defenses that only manifest under extreme stress from herbivores (Bryant and Kuropat 1980; Elton 1951). The ‘peak’ Ms. Henry’s informants described, and the ensuing decline of ratting as a component of the seasonal round suggest a synchronized cycle of subsistence activities with ratting at one end, and as her words “as in previous years” implies, with gardening at the other. 
1.6.6 Venetie 1941-1971 
      Just as the records of gardening in Stevens Village reflect a level of synchronization between subsistence cycles and those of the local ecosystem, Venetie’s gardening history bears a similar marker of knowledge of and responsiveness to multi-annual weather cycles. Frosts were reported in Venetie by ANS teachers from 1948 to 31 
          15 Chas. R. Mountjoy, Director, Div, or Resources, ANS, Juneau, AK, to Edna E. Hall, ANS Teacher, Venetie, AK; File 917, Agricultural Statistics & Production: Venetie 1938-72; AHF3; RR; RG75; NAPA. 
      1955, years for which there was little to no local participation in gardens, other than what support the teacher could drum up through active campaigning. In 1953, the BIA sent a letter instructing then teacher Enda E. Hall to stop sending garden reports altogether, and that “there are certain villages where it is apparently practically impossible to raise a garden…Venetie is in this group.”15 But in 1948, 49 and 50, the people of Venetie had reported that they were waiting for a period of frosts to end, before any worthwhile gardening could be pursued. As predicted, beginning in 1956 their garden productivity began a dramatic upswing. In 1962 the village garden yielded a recorded 24,000 lbs of potatoes (and another 4000 lbs of a variety of other produce), for which native gardeners won several awards at the state fair in Palmer; between 1961 and 1967, the Venetie garden consistently produced between 10 and 20 thousand pounds of produce. 
1.7 DISCUSSION: INNOVATION, OVERINNOVATION, AND OUTPOST AGRICULTURE 
      In an early letter to ANS schoolteacher Richard P. Birchill, Charles Hawkesworth of the BIA wrote: It is clear with us that gardens will gradually be increased in size and the people will [then] have a third food resource. Heretofore the native people have secured their food from the water and from land animals. Now they should get the value 32 
16 The longest number of consecutive years an ANS schoolteacher reported for a village was 5 years (Mr. Richard P. Birchill 1960-1964), the most common however was just 1 year. Many left the villages during the summer, and did not participate in subsistence activities. 
17Lydia Fohn-Hansen, UA CES, to Max Penrod, Educational Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 4/18/1958; Folder 947;GS;GSC;RR;RG75;NAPA. 
of garden crops, and thus have a varied diet. This is being done throughout the territory where soil is suitable. (Hawkesworth, 1938) 
We now know that the aboriginal diets and substance patterns of Athabascan and Eskimo communities were in fact far more diverse, in both content and nutrition, and historically far more reliable, than they appeared to the educators, administrators and bureaucrats like Hawkesworth, many of whom had short tenures and rarely saw the villages for which they made policy16 (Gadsby 2002; Grivetti and Ogle 2000; Holloway and Alexander 1990; Nelson 1986). Nevertheless this quote makes for a nice introduction to answering this question because it introduces the general perception that garden projects, as a matter of rural development, had to represent a major component of the local economy and diet to be considered a success. In a letter from Lydia Fohn-Hansen of the UA Cooperative Extension Service to Max Penrod, Educational Director of the BIA17, she stated that “Food production is only a part of the answer to the plight of Alaskan villages. What is needed is a community development plan … to promote social, economic, health and technological innovation” (1958). These goals of dramatic, overall economic development and social transformation were not met by the village gardening initiatives, and as such any successes, like the 25,000 lbs of potatoes grown by people from Venetie on a total of 2 cultivated acres of land were marginalized or dismissed altogether, eclipsed by the perception that no long-term developmental progress was being made towards a more “civilized” life as agriculturalists. 33 Such dogma is well understood in development anthropology as common to a colonialist attitude and belonging to “the fallacy of overinnovation:” where top-down prescriptions for development are made that are negligent to local social and cultural structures (Kottak 1990; Merry 2000; Delcore 2004). Overinnovation is part of a development narrative which incorporates “planners’ values,” e.g. progressing, efficiency, modernization, and operates under the assumption that it can and should happen along a very specific teleological timeline (Kottak 1990). In the case of Alaska, perceptions of food insecurity and need in rural communities were in some cases real, others only perceived, but regardless the BIA pursued a rigorous program of rural education and development both rooted in and fueled by a long-held belief in agriculture as a nearly-divine mechanism of economic development and civil progress (Quinn 1991). The single-mindedness of this ‘overinnovative developer’ mindset, coupled with the ignorance to the complexities and nuances of the local life ways, made BIA agents unable to see the extent to which gardening actually had been integrated into the communities’ subsistence strategies. 
      Indeed the Alaska Native communities of the flats region saw great potential in crop cultivation, and experimented with new and different ways to incorporate the practice into their strategies. Though he was not directly concerned with Native communities, Dr. Francis (1967) was mindful of the special circumstances for agriculture in the state when he wrote about agriculture in Alaska, recognizing that its place within an Alaska economy was very different in nature than classic “pioneer” or development agriculture: 34 In reality, agriculture in Alaska is of the unusual kind that supplies an outpost. It can be likened to the garden behind the fur trading post, or the greenhouse annex to the Arctic research station. It is neither integrated nor, as it is today, integrable [sic] with the open markets of the nation. In fact, the closer the economy of the rest of the nation comes to Alaska, the smaller becomes the function of Alaskan agriculture. (Francis 1967) 
Though agriculture in Alaska could not in either the short or the long term follow the same developmental path that it had in the lower-48, it could (and did) in Kottak’s words (1990) meet more “down-to-earth and specific objectives,” as a flexible, supplementary, stabilizing activity which can be easily and informally integrated with the existing local economies. We can read between the lines in these records, especially in those of Stevens Village the ratting season, and Venetie and the frosts, to see that the variability of participation in native gardening was not a failure, but indicative of a process of experimentation that happened outside the dominant narrative of development, where cropping became incorporated within a set of heterodox strategies that valued diversity over economic growth and followed not just a yearly seasonal round of activities but also multi-year and in some cases multi-decadal ecological and climatic cycles (Nelson 1986; Krupnik and Jolly 2002). 
1.8 CONCLUSION 
Francis (1967) also predicted the inherent vulnerability of outpost agriculture to the influence of the national economy, and native outpost gardens were eventually made 35 irrelevant (or so it seemed) by the encroachment of a cash economy and the decrease in transportation costs that brought the nation’s cheap food surplus to the shelves of local trading posts and village convenience stores. Today the foodstuffs on the shelves of the local store are still viewed as providing a measure of food security; but as our understanding of the caveats of the nutritional and political economies of cheap food increases, outpost agriculture is finding a renewed niche in emerging indigenous movements against the vulnerabilities embedded within participation in the cheap food system (Kloppenburg et al. 1996). Native communities, including many in the flats, are trying to recover and redevelop local gardening expertise in an attempt to break the cheap-food addiction that has brought with it plagues such as type II diabetes and obesity (Nobmann et al. 1992; Kuhnlein et al. 2004). Villages like Minto and Fort Yukon are experimenting with new or intensified village gardening and farming strategies to complement other traditional subsistence activities, with clear implications for increasing the quality and quantity of food that is produced locally, for reducing vulnerability to external economic forces, and for contributing to better individual and community health (Gerlach et al. in press; see also chapter 3 in this volume). 
      However, the “customary and traditional” legal framework described here, as it is presently interpreted and enforced by state and federal agencies, does not make room for the kind of cultural experimentation that these new initiatives represent. Such experimentation is imbedded within the historical patterns of innovative behavior obscured beneath the biases of these BIA archives. Though there is a paucity of documentation of cropping by Alaska Natives in both institutional and academic 36 
literature, outpost gardening played an important, albeit intermittent role within the local foodways of Interior Alaskan communities. As the records explored here reveal, this was not simply an imported and regulated behavior but a locally-adapted strategy that falls well within the realm of customary and traditional. Native outpost gardens should, in fact, be regarded as a success, not a failure, because of how readily, when the conditions and timing was right, communities were able to integrate them into their already diverse and variable subsistence economies. By bringing these historical patterns into the contemporary dialogue, new and tractable interpretations and implementations of these frameworks become possible: ones that make room for the kind of flexibility and innovation that many argue is required again if communities like those of the Tanana River and Yukon River flats are to respond successfully to new threats to their livelihoods, such as the down-scale impacts of globalization and global climate change (Anderson 1998; Folke et al. 2003; Gerlach et al. in press; Irvine and Kaplan 2001). Similar to the ecosystem services concept, a ‘services’ approach to modeling complex systems is popular in the domain of information technology (IT). Called the Services-Oriented Architecture (SOA), it is a standardized framework with which businesses can describe the services they offer, how and where these services are provided, and the policies that govern their use. The SOA provides a straightforward, scalable and portable way to describe and organize complex systems. Success of this approach in the world of IT suggests its applicability in other domains. In this paper I discuss the particulars of the SOA as a way to further the usefulness of the ecosystem services concept for analyzing and modeling integrated social-ecological systems (SESs), present a prototype for its use, and then test it using an example from rural Alaska. 
2.2 INTRODUCTION 
      The ecosystem services concept, as described by Gretchen Daily is the “conditions and processes through which natural ecosystems, and the species that make them up, sustain and fulfill human life” (1997:3). It quickly gained popularity because of its usefulness for recasting ecological function into economic terms (Costanza and others 1997), a translation which up until that point had confounded economists and natural 
          13 Loring, P.A. and F.S. Chapin III. in Preparation. A “services-oriented architecture” for analyzing social-ecological systems. Ecosystems.  55 resource managers. The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA) (2005) further extended this concept, and side-stepped much of its controversy, by presenting ecosystem services in a qualitative, rather than quantitative way. In the MA, ecosystem services are used to describe, not just to assign value to the spectrum of benefits that societies derive from ecosystems, placing them into 4 categories: supporting, provisioning, regulating, and cultural services. 
      A similar ‘services’ approach to modeling complex systems, the Services-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is popular in the world of information technology (IT). Many businesses use the SOA to model the services they offer, how and where these services are provided, and the policies that govern their use. In practice, the approach has enabled computer software architects around the world to transform an internet characterized by heterogeneous, incompatible computer programs into a unified network of service-providers and service-consumers. The SOA has done so by establishing a common vocabulary and meta-data framework for capturing a spectrum of information about services. This paper presents an adapted version of the SOA framework to further enhance the robustness of the ecosystem services concept. Social-ecological interactions can be elaborated in a way that will help us to explore the four key components SES sustainability: resilience –in the details of service relationships that foster diversity and stability; vulnerability – via the service relationships that are highly specialized, monocultural, or lack redundancy; and adaptability and transformability – both through the conditions that allow system service providers and consumers to adapt, innovate, and self-organize, and by establishing a standard for viewing that chnge through time. 56 Because the SOA is easily scalable, the prototype presented here can be used to model the smallest ecological niche to the largest global system. 
2.3 SERVICES AND THE SERVICES-ORIENTED ARCHITECTURE 
      Many people outside the field of IT do not realize that IT analysts are far less concerned with technology, e.g. computers and computer software, as they are with information. An IT architect’s primary responsibility is to design an efficient ontology, or way of knowing and describing complex systems. The SOA is one such ontology; it describes complex systems via the relationships that exist between their functional/organizational units, specifically service provider to service consumer relationships, and services are the ‘stuff’ of those relationships. And though reckoning one’s business in terms of the services it provides is not a new concept, formalizing those services within a standardized meta-model is, and through information technology this practice has been a boon to companies’ efficiency and flexibility. Though the SOA and ecosystem services were conceived separately, there is great similarity between the two. This section presents an adapted version of the OASIS SOA reference model created for the computer software industry for use with social-ecological systems (based on MacKenzie and others 2006). This prototype is not itself a model, but a set of unifying concepts, axioms, and relationships that are useful for modeling ecosystem services, their providers and their consumers. As a result of this section, a common vocabulary and shared understanding of the SOA should emerge, one that precedes the particulars of its use in the real world. 57 One goal of learning the language of the SOA is to be able to better organize complex systems into a collection of loosely-coupled functional units. This makes it easier to investigating issues such as substitution, a notion of great importance in the discussion of ecosystem services. Erlich and Mooney (1983) first discussed substitution in terms of extinction events and the series of consequences that follow. Today the notion extends well into the realm of natural resource management, in terms of weighing economic tradeoffs and planning ecological damage mitigation. For example, contemporary challenges regarding non-renewable resource extraction and global climate change are making questions of ecosystem service substitutability (e.g. between coal, solar, wind, oil and hydrogen-based power) immediate. An SOA-style model of ecosystem services, which delineate the inputs and outputs related to one or a group of ecosystem service providers and consumers, helps managers and scientists the enumerate requirements for such substitution and mitigation measures. 
      One of the ways that the SOA achieves this is through typing. Services at the most basic level share a handful of characteristics, but in practice have a number of details that are specific to their type. Consider the differences between a television set and a computer monitor: both are types of visual display devices, which despite their many differences share a basic set of characteristics and uses. To someone designing a security system, it is useful to be able to consider them side-by-side despite their differences in order to determine which would make the best choice, or how to substitute one for the other. The MA has already established the types of ecosystem services: 58 
supporting, provisioning, regulating, and cultural services, and these four types work well within the SOA.
