Cannon-Brookes was still dissatisfied. FedEx Days were working fine, but they had an
inherent weakness. “You built something in twenty-four hours, but you didn’t get any
more time to work on it,” he says. So he and cofounder Farquhar decided to double-down
their bet on employee autonomy. In the spring of 2008, they announced that for the next
six months, Atlassian developers could spend 20 percent of their time—rather than just
one intense day—working on any project they wanted. As Cannon-Brookes explained in
a blog post to employees:
A startup engineer must be all things—he (or she) is a full time software developer and a
part time product manager/ customer support guru/internal systems maven. As a company
grows, an engineer spends less time building the things he personally wants in the
product. Our hope is that 20% time gives engineers back dedicated stack time—of their
own direction—to spend on product innovation, features, plugins, fixes or additions that
they think are the most important.6
This practice has a sturdy tradition and a well-known modern expression. Its pioneer was
the American company 3M. In the 1930s and 1940s, 3M’s president and chairman was
William McKnight, a fellow who was as unassuming in his manner as he was visionary
in his thinking. McKnight believed in a simple, and at the time, subversive, credo: “Hire
good people, and leave them alone.” Well before it was fashionable for managers to flap
on about “empowerment,” he made a more vigorous case for autonomy. “Those men and
women to whom we delegate authority and responsibility, if they are good people, are
going to want to do their jobs in their own way,” he wrote in 1948.7 McKnight even
encouraged employees to engage in what he called “experimental doodling.”
“As an entrepreneur, I’m blessed with 100% autonomy over task, time, technique and
team. Here’s the thing: If I maintain that autonomy, I fail. I fail to ship. I fail to excel. I
fail to focus. I inevitably end up either with no product or a product the market rejects.
The art of the art is picking your limits. That’s the autonomy I most cherish. The freedom
to pick my boundaries.”
SETH GODIN, Author of Tribes, Purple Cow, and the world’s most popular marketing
blog
With these unorthodox ideas percolating in his mind, this unlikely corporate heretic
established a new policy: 3M’s technical staff could spend up to 15 percent of their time
on projects of their choosing. The initiative felt so counter to the mores of Motivation 2.0,
so seemingly illicit, that inside the company, it was known as the “bootlegging policy.”
And yet it worked. These walled gardens of autonomy soon became fertile fields for a
harvest of innovations—including Post-it notes. Scientist Art Fry came up with his idea
for the ubiquitous stickie not in one of his regular assignments, but during his 15 percent
time. Today, Post-its are a monumental business: 3M offers more than six hundred Post-it
products in more than one hundred countries. (And their cultural impact might be even
greater. Consider: But for McKnight’s early push for autonomy, we’d be living in a world
without any small yellow squares stuck to our computer monitors. A chilling thought
indeed.) According to 3M’s former head of research and development, most of the
inventions that the company relies on even today emerged from those periods of
bootlegging and experimental doodling.8
McKnight’s innovation remains in place at 3M. But only a surprisingly small number of
other companies have moved in this direction, despite its proven results. The best-known
company to embrace it is Google, which has long encouraged engineers to spend one day
a week working on a side project. Some Googlers use their “20 percent time” to fix an
existing product, but most use it to develop something entirely new. Of course, Google
doesn’t sign away the intellectual property rights to what’s created during that 20
percent—which is wise. In a typical year, more than half of Google’s new offerings are
birthed during this period of pure autonomy. For example, scientist Krishna Bharat,
frustrated by how difficult it was to find news stories online, created Google News in his
20 percent time. The site now receives millions of visitors every day. Former Google
engineer Paul Bucheit created Gmail, now one of the world’s most popular e-mail
programs, as his 20 percent project. Many other Google products share similar creation
stories—among them Orkut (Google’s social networking software), Google Talk (its
instant message application), Google Sky (which allows astronomically inclined users to
browse pictures of the universe), and Google Translate (its translation software for
mobile devices). As Google engineer Alec Proudfoot, whose own 20 percent project
aimed at boosting the efficiency of hybrid cars, put it in a television interview: “Just
about all the good ideas here at Google have bubbled up from 20 percent time.”9
Back at Atlassian, the experiment in 20 percent time seemed to work. In what turned out
to be a yearlong trial, developers launched forty-eight new projects. So in 2009, Cannon-
Brookes decided to make this dose of task autonomy a permanent feature of Atlassian
work life. The decision didn’t sit well with everyone. By Cannon-Brookes’s back-of-theblog
calculations, seventy engineers, spending 20 percent of their time over just a sixmonth
period, amounted to an investment of $1 million. The company’s chief financial
officer was aghast. Some project managers—despite Atlassian’s forward-thinking ways,
the company still uses the m-word—weren’t happy, because it meant ceding some of
their control over employees. When a few wanted to track employees’ time to make sure
they didn’t abuse the privilege, Cannon-Brookes said no. “That was too controlling. I
wanted to back our engineers and take it on faith that they’ll do good things.” Besides, he
says, “People are way more efficient about 20 percent time than regular work time. They
say, ‘I’m not going to [expletive]ing do anything like read newsfeeds or do Facebook.’ ”
These days, when a finance guy, pearls of sweat rolling from his green eyeshades, objects
to the price tag, Cannon-Brookes has a ready response: “I show him a long list of things
we’ve delivered. I show him that we have zero turnover in engineering. And I show him
that we have highly motivated engineers who are always trying to perfect and improve
our product.”
Autonomy over task is one of the essential aspects of the Motivation 3.0 approach to
work. And it isn’t reserved only for technology companies. At Georgetown University
Hospital in Washington, D.C., for instance, many nurses have the freedom to conduct
their own research projects, which in turn have changed a number of the hospital’s
programs and policies.10 Autonomy measures can work in a range of fields—and offer a
promising source for innovations and even institutional reforms.
Initiatives like FedEx Days and sanctioned side projects aren’t always easy to execute in
the day-to-day maw of serving customers, shipping products, and solving problems. But
they’re becoming urgent in an economy that demands nonroutine, creative, conceptual
abilities—as any artist or designer would agree. Autonomy over task has long been
critical to their ability to create. And good leaders (as opposed to competent “managers”)
understand this in their bones.
Case in point: George Nelson, who was the design director at Her-man Miller, the iconic
American furniture maker, for a few decades. He once laid down five simple tenets that
he believed led to great design. One of these principles could serve as a rallying cry for
Type I’s ethic of autonomy over task: “You decide what you will make.”
Time
Ever wonder why lawyers, as a group, are so miserable? Some social scientists have—
and they’ve offered three explanations. One involves pessimism. Being pessimistic is
almost always a recipe for low levels of what psychologists call “subjective well-being.”
It’s also a detriment in most professions. But as Martin Seligman has written, “There is
one glaring exception: pessimists do better at law.” In other words, an attitude that makes
someone less happy as a human being actually makes her more effective as a lawyer.11 A
second reason: Most other enterprises are positive-sum. If I sell you something you want
and enjoy, we’re both better off. Law, by contrast, is often (though not always) a zerosum
game: Because somebody wins, somebody else must lose.
But the third reason might offer the best explanation of all—and help us understand why
so few attorneys exemplify Type I behavior. Lawyers often face intense demands but
have relatively little “decision latitude.” Behavioral scientists use this term to describe the
choices, and perceived choices, a person has. In a sense, it’s another way of describing
autonomy—and lawyers are glum and cranky because they don’t have much of it. The
deprivation starts early. A 2007 study of two American law schools found that over the
three-year period in school, students’ overall well-being plummeted—in large part
because their need for autonomy was thwarted. But students who had greater autonomy
over their course selection, their assignments, and their relations with professors showed
far less steep declines and actually posted better grades and bar exam scores.12
“Nothing is more important to my success than controlling my schedule. I’m most
creative from five to nine A.M. If I had a boss or co-workers, they would ruin my best
hours one way or another.”
SCOTT ADAMS
Dilbert creator
Alas, at the heart of private legal practice is perhaps the most autonomy-crushing
mechanism imaginable: the billable hour. Most lawyers—and nearly all lawyers in large,
prestigious firms—must keep scrupulous track, often in six-minute increments, of their
time. If they fail to bill enough hours, their jobs are in jeopardy. As a result, their focus
inevitably veers from the output of their work (solving a client’s problem) to its input
(piling up as many hours as possible). If the rewards come from time, then time is what
firms will get. These sorts of high-stakes, measurable goals can drain intrinsic
motivation, sap individual initiative, and even encourage unethical behavior. “If one is
expected to bill more than two thousand hours per year,” former U.S. Supreme Court
Chief Justice William Rehnquist once said, “there are bound to be temptations to
exaggerate the hours actually put in.”13
The billable hour is a relic of Motivation 2.0. It makes some sense for routine tasks—
whether fitting doors onto the body of a Ford Taurus or adding up deductions on a simple
tax form—because there’s a tight connection between how much time goes in and how
much work comes out. And if your starting assumption is that workers’ default setting is
to shirk, monitoring their time can keep them on their toes.
But the billable hour has little place in Motivation 3.0. For nonroutine tasks, including
law, the link between how much time somebody spends and what that somebody
produces is irregular and unpredictable. Imagine requiring inventor Dean Kamen or
actress Helen Mirren to bill for their time. If we begin from an alternative, and more
accurate, presumption—that people want to do good work—then we ought to let them
focus on the work itself rather than the time it takes them to do it. Already, a few law
firms are moving in this new, more Type I direction—charging a flat rate rather than a
time-based fee—with the presiding partner of one of New York’s leading law firms
recently declaring, “This is the time to get rid of the billable hour.”14
If the billable hour has an antithesis, it’s the results-only work environment of the kind
that Jeff Gunther has introduced at his companies. The first large company to go ROWE
was Best Buy—not in its stores, but in its corporate offices. Like 3M’s 15 percent time,
Best Buy’s ROWE experiment began as something of a rogue project launched by
Ressler and Thompson, whom I mentioned earlier and who have since become ROWE
gurus, taking their message of autonomy around the world. Best Buy’s headquarters in
Richfield, Minnesota, are airy, modern, and replete with a concierge, cafés, and dry
cleaner. But the company had a reputation for punishing hours and intrusive bosses—and
it was paying the price in lost talent. Best Buy’s then CEO Brad Anderson quietly agreed
to Ressler and Thompson’s weird proposal, because it encouraged “people to contribute
rather than just show up and grind out their days.”15
Today, Best Buy’s headquarters has fewer people working a regular schedule than it has
those working a ROWE un-schedule. And even though retail electronics is a brutally
competitive industry, Best Buy has held its own both in the marketplace and in its quest
for talent. Reporting on the company’s ROWE results in the Harvard Business Review,
Tamara Erickson writes:
Salaried people put in as much time as it takes to do their work. Hourly employees in the
program work a set number of hours to comply with federal labor regulations, but they
get to choose when. Those employees report better relationships with family and friends,
more company loyalty, and more focus and energy. Productivity has increased by 35%,
and voluntary turnover is 320 basis points lower than in teams that have not made the
change. Employees say they don’t know whether they work fewer hours—they’ve
stopped counting.16
Without sovereignty over our time, it’s nearly impossible to have autonomy over our
lives. A few Type I organizations have begun to recognize this truth about the human
condition and to realign their practices. More, no doubt, will follow. “In the past, work
was defined primarily by putting in time, and secondarily on getting results. We need to
flip that model,” Ressler told me. “No matter what kind of business you’re in, it’s time to
throw away the tardy slips, time clocks, and outdated industrial-age thinking.”
Technique
When you call a customer service line to complain about your cable television bill or to
check the whereabouts of that blender you ordered, the phone usually rings in a colorless
cavern known as a call center. The person who answers the call, a customer service
representative, has a tough job. He typically sits for hours among a warren of cramped
cubicles—headset strapped on, a diet soda by his side. The pay is paltry. And the people
the rep encounters on the phone—one after another after another—generally aren’t
ringing up to offer kudos or to ask about the rep’s weekend plans. They’ve got a gripe, a
frustration, or a problem that needs solving. Right. Now.
If that weren’t trying enough, call center reps have little decision latitude and their jobs
are often the very definition of routine. When a call comes in, they listen to the caller—
and then, in most cases, tap a few buttons on their computer to retrieve a script. Then they
follow that script, sometimes word for word, in the hope of getting the caller off the line
as quickly as possible. It can be deadening work, made drearier still because managers in
many call centers, in an effort to boost productivity, listen in on reps’ conversations and
monitor how long each call lasts. Little wonder, then, that call centers in the United States
and the UK have annual turnover rates that average about 35 percent, double the rate for
other jobs. In some call centers the annual turnover rate exceeds 100 percent, meaning
that, on average, none of the people working there today will be there a year from now.
Tony Hsieh, founder of the online shoe retailer Zappos.com (now part of Amazon.com),
thought there was a better way to recruit, prepare, and challenge such employees. So new
hires at Zappos go through a week of training. Then, at the end of those seven days,
Hsieh makes them an offer. If they feel Zappos isn’t for them and want to leave, he’ll pay
them $2,000—no hard feelings. Hsieh is hacking the Motivation 2.0 operating system
like a brilliant and benevolent teenage computer whiz. He’s using an “if-then” reward not
to motivate people to perform better, but to weed out those who aren’t fit for a
Motivation 3.0-style workplace. The people who remain receive decent pay, and just as
important, they have autonomy over technique. Zappos doesn’t monitor its customer
service employees’ call times or require them to use scripts. The reps handle calls the
way they want. Their job is to serve the customer well; how they do it is up to them.
The results of this emphasis on autonomy over technique? Turnover at Zappos is
minimal. And although it’s still young, Zappos consistently ranks as one of the best
companies for customer service in the United States—ahead of better-known names like
Cadillac, BMW, and Apple and roughly equal to ritzy brands like Jaguar and the Ritz-
Carlton.17 Not bad for a shoe company based in the Nevada desert.
What Zappos is doing is part of a small but growing move to restore some measure of
individual freedom in jobs usually known for the lack of it. For instance, while many
enterprises are offshoring work to low-cost providers overseas, some companies are
reversing the trend by beginning what’s known as “homeshoring.” Instead of requiring
customer service reps to report to a single large call center, they’re routing the calls to the
employees’ homes. This cuts commuting time for staff, removes them from physical
monitoring, and provides far greater autonomy over how they do their jobs.
The American airline JetBlue was one of the first to try this approach. From its launch in
2000, JetBlue has relied on telephone customer service employees who work at home.
And from its launch, JetBlue has earned customer service rankings far ahead of its
competitors. Productivity and job satisfaction are generally higher in homeshoring than in
conventional arrangements—in part because employees are more comfortable and less
monitored at home. But it’s also because this autonomy-centered approach draws from a
deeper pool of talent. Many homeshore employees are parents, students, retirees, and
people with disabilities—those who want to work, but need to do it their own way.
According to one report, between 70 and 80 percent of home-based customer service
agents have college degrees—double the percentage among people working in traditional
call centers. Ventures like Alpine Access, PHH Arval, and LiveOps, which run customer
service departments for a range of companies, report that after adopting this method, their
recruiting costs fall to almost zero. Prospective employees come to them. And now these
home-based customer service reps are working for a number of U.S. companies—
including 1-800-Flowers, J. Crew, Office Depot, even the Internal Revenue Service—
handling customer inquiries the way they choose.18 As in any effective Motivation 3.0
workplace, it’s their call.
Team
Whatever your place in the birth order, consider what it’s like to be the third child in a
family. You don’t get a say in choosing the people around you. They’re there when you
arrive. Worse, one or two of them might not be so glad to see you. And getting rid of
even just one of them is usually impossible.
“Autonomy over what we do is most important. The biggest difference between working
for other studios and running my own has been the fact that I can choose what job we
take on and what product, service, or institution we promote. This I find the single most
important question: When I’m close to the content, research becomes easy, meetings
become interesting (people who produce interesting products or services are mostly
interesting themselves), and I don’t have to be involved in false advertising.”
STEFAN SAGMEISTER
Designer
Taking a new job and holding most jobs are similar. Enterprising souls might be able to
scratch out some autonomy over task, time, and technique—but autonomy over team is a
taller order. That’s one reason people are drawn to entrepreneurship—the chance to build
a team of their own. But even in more traditional settings, although far from typical yet, a
few organizations are discovering the virtues of offering people some amount of freedom
over those with whom they work.
For example, at the organic grocery chain Whole Foods, the people who are nominally in
charge of each department don’t do the hiring. That task falls to a department’s
employees. After a job candidate has worked a thirty-day trial period on a team, the
prospective teammates vote on whether to hire that person full-time. At W. L. Gore &
Associates, the makers of the GORE-TEX fabric and another example of Motivation 3.0
in action, anybody who wants to rise in the ranks and lead a team must assemble people
willing to work with her.19
The ability to put together a pick-up basketball team of company talent is another
attraction of 20 percent time. These initiatives usually slice across the organization chart,
connecting people who share an interest, if not a department. As Google engineer Bharat
Mediratta told The New York Times, “If your 20 percent idea is a new product, it’s
usually pretty easy to just find a few like-minded people and start coding away.” And
when pushing for a more systemic change in the organization, Mediratta says autonomy
over team is even more important. Those efforts require what he calls a “grouplet”—a
small, self-organized team that has almost no budget and even less authority, but that tries
to change something within the company. For instance, Mediratta formed a testing
grouplet to encourage engineers throughout the company to implement a more efficient
way to test computer code. This informal band of coders, a team built autonomously
without direction from the top, “slowly turned the organization on its axis.”20
Still, the desire for autonomy can often collide with other obligations. One surprise as
Atlassian ran the numbers on its task autonomy experiment was that most employees
came in substantially under the 20 percent figure. The main reason? They didn’t want to
let down their current teammates by abandoning ongoing projects.
Although autonomy over team is the least developed of the four T’s, the ever-escalating
power of social networks and the rise of mobile apps now make this brand of autonomy
easier to achieve—and in ways that reach beyond a single organization. The open-source
projects I mentioned in Chapter 1, in which ad hoc teams self-assemble to build a new
browser or create better server software, are a potent example. And once again, the
science affirms the value of something traditional businesses have been slow to embrace.
Ample research has shown that people working in self-organized teams are more satisfied
than those working in inherited teams.21 Likewise, studies by Deci and others have shown
that people high in intrinsic motivation are better coworkers.22 And that makes the
possibilities on this front enormous. If you want to work with more Type I’s, the best
strategy is to become one yourself. Autonomy, it turns out, can be contagious.
THE ART OF AUTONOMY
Think for a moment about the great artists of the last hundred years and how they
worked—people like Pablo Picasso, Georgia O’Keeffe, and Jackson Pollock. Unlike for
the rest of us, Motivation 2.0 was never their operating system. Nobody told them: You
must paint this sort of picture. You must begin painting precisely at eight-thirty A.M. You
must paint with the people we select to work with you. And you must paint this way. The
very idea is ludicrous.
But you know what? It’s ludicrous for you, too. Whether you’re fixing sinks, ringing up
groceries, selling cars, or writing a lesson plan, you and I need autonomy just as deeply
as a great painter.
However, encouraging autonomy doesn’t mean discouraging accountability. Whatever
operating system is in place, people must be accountable for their work. But there are
different ways to achieve this end, each built on different assumptions about who we are
deep down. Motivation 2.0 assumed that if people had freedom, they would shirk—and
that autonomy was a way to bypass accountability. Motivation 3.0 begins with a different
assumption. It presumes that people want to be accountable—and that making sure they
have control over their task, their time, their technique, and their team is a pathway to
that destination.
Of course, because most workplaces still reverberate with the assumptions of the old
operating system, transitioning to autonomy won’t—often can’t—happen in one fell
swoop. If we pluck people out of controlling environments, when they’ve known nothing
else, and plop them in a ROWE or an environment of undiluted autonomy, they’ll
struggle. Organizations must provide, as Richard Ryan puts it, “scaffolding” to help
every employee find his footing to make the transition.
What’s more, different individuals will prize different aspects of autonomy. Some might
crave autonomy over a task; others might prefer autonomy over the team. As Zappos
CEO Hsieh told me by e-mail, “Studies have shown that perceived control is an
important component of one’s happiness. However, what people feel like they want
control over really varies, so I don’t think there’s one aspect of autonomy that’s
universally the most important. Different individuals have different desires, so the best
strategy for an employer would be to figure out what’s important to each individual
employee.”
Still, however those individual desires express themselves on the surface, they grow from
common roots. We’re born to be players, not pawns. We’re meant to be autonomous
individuals, not individual automatons. We’re designed to be Type I. But outside
forces—including the very idea that we need to be “managed”—have conspired to
change our default setting and turn us into Type X. If we update the environments we’re
in—not only at work, but also at school and at home—and if leaders recognize both the
truth of the human condition and the science that supports it, we can return ourselves and
our colleagues to our natural state.
“The course of human history has always moved in the direction of greater freedom. And
there’s a reason for that—because it’s in our nature to push for it,” Ryan told me. “If we
were just plastic like [some] people think, this wouldn’t be happening. But somebody
stands in front of a tank in China. Women, who’ve been denied autonomy, keep
advocating for rights. This is the course of history. This is why ultimately human nature,
if it ever realizes itself, will do so by becoming more autonomous.”
CHAPTER 5
Mastery
You need not see what someone is doing
to know if it is his vocation,
you have only to watch his eyes:
a cook mixing a sauce, a surgeon
making a primary incision,
a clerk completing a bill of lading,
wear the same rapt expression, forgetting
themselves in a function.
How beautiful it is,
that eye-on-the-object look.
—W. H. Auden
One summer morning in 1944, Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, age ten, stood on a train
platform in Budapest, Hungary, with his mother, two brothers, and about seventy
relatives who’d come to see them off. World War II was raging, and Hungary, an
ambivalent member of the Axis, was being squeezed from every political and geographic
corner. Nazi soldiers were occupying the country in retaliation for Hungary’s secret
peace negotiations with the United States and Great Britain. Meanwhile, Soviet troops
were advancing on the capital city.
It was time to leave. So the foursome boarded a train for Venice, Italy, where
Csikszentmihalyi’s father, a diplomat, was working. As the train rumbled southwest,
bombs exploded in the distance. Bullets ripped through the train’s windows, while a rifletoting
soldier on board fired back at the attackers. The ten-year-old crouched under his
seat, terrified but also a little annoyed.
“It struck me at that point that grown-ups had really no idea how to live,”
Csikszentmihalyi told me some sixty-five years later.
His train would turn out to be the last to cross the Danube River for many years. Shortly
after its departure, air strikes destroyed Hungary’s major bridges. The Csikszentmihalyis
were well educated and well connected, but the war flattened their lives. Of the relatives
on the train platform that morning, more than half would be dead five months later. One
of Csikszentmihalyi’s brothers spent six years doing hard labor in the Ural Mountains.
Another was killed fighting the Soviets.
“The whole experience got me thinking,” Csikszentmihalyi said, recalling his ten-yearold
self. “There has got to be a better way to live than this.”
The opposite of autonomy is control. And since they sit at different poles of the
behavioral compass, they point us toward different destinations. Control leads to
compliance; autonomy leads to engagement. And this distinction leads to the second
element of Type I behavior: mastery—the desire to get better and better at something that
matters.
As I explained in Part One, Motivation 2.0’s goal was to encourage people to do
particular things in particular ways—that is, to get them to comply. And for that
objective, few motivators are more effective than a nice bunch of carrots and the threat of
an occasional stick. This was rarely a promising route to self-actualization, of course. But
as an economic strategy, it had a certain logic. For routine tasks, the sort of work that
defined most of the twentieth century, gaining compliance usually worked just fine.
But that was then. For the definitional tasks of the twenty-first century, such a strategy
falls short, often woefully short. Solving complex problems requires an inquiring mind
and the willingness to experiment one’s way to a fresh solution. Where Motivation 2.0
sought compliance, Motivation 3.0 seeks engagement. Only engagement can produce
mastery. And the pursuit of mastery, an important but often dormant part of our third
drive, has become essential in making one’s way in today’s economy.
Unfortunately, despite sweet-smelling words like “empowerment” that waft through
corporate corridors, the modern workplace’s most notable feature may be its lack of
engagement and its disregard for mastery. Gallup’s extensive research on the subject
shows that in the United States, more than 50 percent of employees are not engaged at
work—and nearly 20 percent are actively disengaged. The cost of all this disengagement:
about $300 billion a year in lost productivity—a sum larger than the GDP of Portugal,
Singapore, or Israel.1 Yet in comparative terms, the United States looks like a veritable
haven of Type I behavior at work. According to the consulting firm McKinsey & Co., in
some countries as little as 2 to 3 percent of the workforce is highly engaged in their
work.2
Equally important, engagement as a route to mastery is a powerful force in our personal
lives. While complying can be an effective strategy for physical survival, it’s a lousy one
for personal fulfillment. Living a satisfying life requires more than simply meeting the
demands of those in control. Yet in our offices and our classrooms we have way too
much compliance and way too little engagement. The former might get you through the
day, but only the latter will get you through the night. And that brings us back to
Csikszentmihalyi’s story.
In his early teens, after witnessing the atrocities of Nazi Germany and the Soviet takeover
of his country, Csikszentmihalyi was understandably weary of compliance and looking
for engagement. But he wouldn’t find it at school. He dropped out of high school at
thirteen. For nearly a decade, he worked in various Western European countries at a
series of jobs, some odder than others, to support himself. And hoping to answer his
youthful question about a better way to live, he read everything he could get his hands on
