modified by the character of Saruman as developed in the story without, need I say, any allegorical
significance or contemporary political reference whatsoever. It has indeed some basis in
experience, though slender (for the economic situation was entirely different), and much further
back. The country in which I lived in childhood was being shabbily destroyed before I was ten, in
days when motor-cars were rare objects (I had never seen one) and men were still building
suburban railways. Recently I saw in a paper a picture of the last decrepitude of the once thriving
corn-mill beside its pool that long ago seemed to me so important. I never liked the looks of the
Young miller, but his father, the Old miller, had a black beard, and he was not named Sandyman.
 _The Lord of the Rings_ is now issued in a new edition, and the opportunity has been taken of
revising it. A number of errors and inconsistencies that still remained in the text have been
corrected, and an attempt has been made to provide information on a few points which attentive
readers have raised. I have considered all their comments and enquiries, and if some seem to have
been passed over that may be because I have failed to keep my notes in order; but many enquiries
could only be answered by additional appendices, or indeed by the production of an accessory
volume containing much of the material that I did not include in the original edition, in particular
more detailed linguistic information. In the meantime this edition offers this Foreword, an addition
to the Prologue, some notes, and an index of the names of persons and places. This index is in
intention complete in items but not in references, since for the present purpose it has been
necessary to reduce its bulk. A complete index, making full use of the material prepared for me by
Mrs. N. Smith, belongs rather to the accessory volume That was Gandalf's mark, of course, and the old man was Gandalf the Wizard, whose fame in
the Shire was due mainly to his skill with fires, smokes, and lights. His real business was far more
difficult and dangerous, but the Shire-folk knew nothing about it. To them he was just one of the
'attractions' at the Party. Hence the excitement of the hobbit-children. 'G for Grand!' they shouted,
and the old man smiled. They knew him by sight, though he only appeared in Hobbiton
occasionally and never stopped long; but neither they nor any but the oldest of their elders had seen
one of his firework displays – they now belonged to the legendary past.
 When the old man, helped by Bilbo and some dwarves, had finished unloading. Bilbo gave a
few pennies away; but not a single squib or cracker was forthcoming, to the disappointment of the
onlookers.
 'Run away now!' sai with age.
 There were rockets like a flight of scintillating birds singing with sweet voices. There were
green trees with trunks of dark smoke: their leaves opened like a whole spring unfolding in a
moment, and their shining branches dropped glowing flowers down upon the astonished hobbits,
disappearing with a sweet scent just before they touched their upturned faces. There were fountains
of butterflies that flew glittering into the trees; there were pillars of coloured fires that rose and
turned into eagles, or sailing ships, or a phalanx of flying swans; there was a red thunderstorm and
a shower of yellow rain; there was a forest of silver spears that sprang suddenly into the air with a
yell like an embattled army, and came down again into the Water with a hiss like a hundred hot
snakes. And there was also one last surprise, in honour of Bilbo, and it startled the hobbits
exceedingly, as Gandalf intended. The lights went out. A great smoke went up. It shaped itself like
a mountain seen in the distance, and began to glow at the summit. It spouted green and scarlet
flames. Out flew a red-golden dragon – not life-size, but terribly life-like: fire came from his jaws,
his eyes glared down; there was a roar, and he whizzed three times over the heads of the crowd.
They all ducked, and many fell flat on their faces. The dragon passed like an express train, turned a
somersault, and burst over Bywater with a deafening explosion.
 'That is the signal for supper!' said Bilbo. The pain and alarm vanished at once, and the prostrate
hobbits leaped to their feet. There was a splendid supper for everyone; for everyone, that is, except those invited to the special family dinner-party. This was held in the great pavilion with the tree.
The invitations were limited to twelve dozen (a number also called by the hobbits one Gross,
though the word was not considered proper to use of people); and the guests were selected from all
the families to which Bilbo and Frodo were related, with the addition of a few special unrelated
friends (such as Gandalf). Many young hobbits were included, and present by parental permission;
for hobbits were easy-going with their children in the matter of sitting up late, especially when
there was a chance of getting them a free meal. Bringing up young hobbits took a lot of provender.
 There were many Bagginses and Boffins, and also many Tooks and Brandybucks; there were
various Grubbs (relations of Bilbo Baggins' grandmother), and various Chubbs (connexions of his
Took grandfather); and a selection of Burrowses, Bolgers, Bracegirdles, Brockhouses, Goodbodies,
Hornblowers and Proudfoots. Some of these were only very distantly connected with Bilbo, and
some of them had hardly ever been in Hobbiton before, as they lived in remote corners of the Shire.
The Sackville-Bagginses were not forgotten. Otho and his wife Lobelia were present. They disliked
Bilbo and detested Frodo, but so magnificent was the invitation card, written in golden ink, that
they had felt it was impossible to refuse. Besides, their cousin, Bilbo, had been specializing in food
for many years and his table had a high reputation.
 All the one hundred and forty-four guests expected a pleasant feast; though they rather dreaded
the after-dinner speech of their host (an inevitable item). He was liable to drag in bits of what he
called poetry; and sometimes, after a glass or two, would allude to the absurd adventures of his
mysterious journey. The guests were not disappointed: they had a _very_ pleasant feast, in fact an
engrossing entertainment: rich, abundant, varied, and prolonged. The purchase of provisions fell
almost to nothing throughout the district in the ensuing weeks; but as Bilbo's catering had depleted
the stocks of most stores, cellars and warehouses for miles around, that did not matter much.
 After the feast (more or less) came the Speech. Most of the company were, however, now in a
tolerant mood, at that delightful stage which they called 'filling up the corners'. They were sipping
their favourite drinks, and nibbling at their favourite dainties, and their fears were forgotten. They
were prepared to listen to anything, and to cheer at every full stop.
 _My dear People,_ began Bilbo, rising in his place. 'Hear! Hear! Hear!' they shouted, and kept
on repeating it in chorus, seeming reluctant to follow their own advice. Bilbo left his place and
went and stood on a chair under the illuminated tree. The light of the lanterns fell on his beaming
face; the golden buttons shone on his embroidered silk waistcoat. They could all see him standing,
waving one hand in the air, the other was in his trouser-pocket.
 _My dear Bagginses and Boffins,_ he began again; _and my dear Tooks and Brandybucks, and
Grubbs, and Chubbs, and Burrowses, and Hornblowers, and Bolgers, Bracegirdles, Goodbodies,
Brockhouses and Proudfoots._ 'ProudFEET!' shouted an elderly hobbit from the back of the
pavilion. His name, of course, was Proudfoot, and well merited; his feet were large, exceptionally
furry, and both were on the table.
 _Proudfoots,_ repeated Bilbo. _Also my good Sackville-Bagginses that I welcome back at last
to Bag End. Today is my one hundred and eleventh birthday: I am eleventy-one today!_ 'Hurray!
Hurray! Many Happy Returns!' they shouted, and they hammered joyously on the tables. Bilbo was
doing splendidly. This was the sort of stuff they liked: short and obvious.
 _I hope you are all enjoying yourselves as much as I am._ Deafening cheers. Cries of _Yes_
(and _No)._ Noises of trumpets and horns, pipes and flutes, and other musical instruments. There
were, as has been said, many young hobbits present. Hundreds of musical crackers had been pulled.
Most of them bore the mark DALE on them; which did not convey much to most of the hobbits, but
they all agreed they were marvellous crackers. They contained instruments, small, but of perfect
make and enchanting tones. Indeed, in one corner some of the young Tooks and Brandybucks,
supposing Uncle Bilbo to have finished (since he had plainly said all that was necessary), now got
up an impromptu orchestra, and began a merry dance-tune. Master Everard Took and Miss Melilot Brandybuck got on a table and with bells in their hands began to dance the Springle-ring: a pretty
dance, but rather vigorous.
 But Bilbo had not finished. Seizing a horn from a youngster near by, he blew three loud hoots.
The noise subsided. _I shall not keep you long,_ he cried. Cheers from all the assembly. _I have
called you all together for a Purpose._ Something in the way that he said this made an impression.
There was almost silence, and one or two of the Tooks pricked up their ears.
 _Indeed, for Three Purposes! First of all, to tell you that I am immensely fond of you all, and
that eleventy-one years is too short a time to live among such excellent and admirable hobbits._
Tremendous outburst of approval.
 _I don't know half of you half as well as I should like; and I like less than half of you half as
well as you deserve._ This was unexpected and rather difficult. There was some scattered clapping,
but most of them were trying to work it out and see if it came to a compliment.
 _Secondly, to celebrate my birthday._ Cheers again. _I should say: OUR birthday. For it is, of
course, also the birthday of my heir and nephew, Frodo. He comes of age and into his inheritance
today._ Some perfunctory clapping by the elders; and some loud shouts of 'Frodo! Frodo! Jolly old
Frodo,' from the juniors. The Sackville-Bagginses scowled, and wondered what was meant by
'coming into his inheritance'. _Together we score one hundred and forty-four. Your numbers were
chosen to fit this remarkable total: One Gross, if I may use the expression._ No cheers. This was
ridiculous. Many of his guests, and especially the Sackville-Bagginses, were insulted, feeling sure
they had only been asked to fill up the required number, like goods in a package. 'One Gross,
indeed! Vulgar expression.'
 _It is also, if I may be allowed to refer to ancient history, the anniversary of my arrival by barrel
at Esgaroth on the Long Lake; though the fact that it was_ my _birthday slipped my memory on
that occasion. I was only fifty-one then, and birthdays did not seem so important. The banquet was
very splendid, however, though I had a bad cold at the time, I remember, and could only say 'thag
you very buch'. I now repeat it more correctly: Thank you very much for coming to my little party._
Obstinate silence. They all feared that a song or some poetry was now imminent; and they were
getting bored. Why couldn't he stop talking and let them drink his health? But Bilbo did not sing or
recite. He paused for a moment.
 _Thirdly and finally,_ he said, _I wish to make an ANNOUNCEMENT_. He spoke this last
word so loudly and suddenly that everyone sat up who still could. _I regret to announce that –
though, as I said, eleventy-one years is far too short a time to spend among you – this is the END. I
am going. I am leaving NOW. GOOD-BYE!_
 He stepped down and vanished. There was a blinding flash of light, and the guests all blinked.
When they opened their eyes Bilbo was nowhere to be seen. One hundred and forty-four
flabbergasted hobbits sat back speechless. Old Odo Proudfoot removed his feet from the table and
stamped. Then there was a dead silence, until suddenly, after several deep breaths, every Baggins,
Boffin, Took, Brandybuck, Grubb, Chubb, Burrows, Bolger, Bracegirdle, Brockhouse, Goodbody,
Hornblower, and Proudfoot began to talk at once.
 It was generally agreed that the joke was in very bad taste, and more food and drink were
needed to cure the guests of shock and annoyance. 'He's mad. I always said so,' was probably the
most popular comment. Even the Tooks (with a few exceptions) thought Bilbo's behaviour was
absurd. For the moment most of them took it for granted that his disappearance was nothing more
than a ridiculous prank.
 But old Rory Brandybuck was not so sure. Neither age nor an enormous dinner had clouded his
wits, and he said to his daughter-in-law, Esmeralda: 'There's something fishy in this, my dear! I
believe that mad Baggins is off again. Silly old fool. But why worry? He hasn't taken the vittles
with him.' He called loudly to Frodo to send the wine round again.
 Frodo was the only one present who had said nothing. For some time he had sat silent beside
Bilbo's empty chair, and ignored all remarks and questions. He had enjoyed the joke, of course,even though he had been in the know. He had difficulty in keeping from laughter at the indignant
surprise of the guests. But at the same time he felt deeply troubled: he realized suddenly that he
loved the old hobbit dearly. Most of the guests went on eating and drinking and discussing Bilbo
Baggins' oddities, past and present; but the Sackville-Bagginses had already departed in wrath.
Frodo did not want to have any more to do with the party. He gave orders for more wine to be
served; then he got up and drained his own glass silently to the health of Bilbo, and slipped out of
the pavilion.
 As for Bilbo Baggins, even while he was making his speech, he had been fingering the golden
ring in his pocket: his magic ring that he had kept secret for so many years. As he stepped down he
slipped it on his finger, and he was never seen by any hobbit in Hobbiton again.
 He walked briskly back to his hole, and stood for a moment listening with a smile to the din in
the pavilion and to the sounds of merrymaking in other parts of the field. Then he went in. He took
off his party clothes, folded up and wrapped in tissue-paper his embroidered silk waistcoat, and put
it away. Then he put on quickly some old untidy garments, and fastened round his waist a worn
leather belt. On it he hung a short sword in a battered black-leather scabbard. From a locked
drawer, smelling of moth-balls, he took out an old cloak and hood. They had been locked up as if
they were very precious, but they were so patched and weatherstained that their original colour
could hardly be guessed: it might have been dark green. They were rather too large for him. He
then went into his study, and from a large strong-box took out a bundle wrapped in old cloths, and a
leather-bound manuscript; and also a large bulky envelope. The book and bundle he stuffed into the
top of a heavy bag that was standing there, already nearly full. Into the envelope he slipped his
golden ring, and its fine chain, and then sealed it, and addressed it to Frodo. At first he put it on the
mantelpiece, but suddenly he removed it and stuck it in his pocket. At that moment the door opened
and Gandalf came quickly in The Sackville-Bagginses were rather offensive. They began by offering him bad bargain-prices
(as between friends) for various valuable and unlabelled things. When Frodo replied that only the
things specially directed by Bilbo were being given away, they said the whole affair was very fishy.
 'Only one thing is clear to me,' said Otho, 'and that is that you are doing exceedingly well out of
it. I insist on seeing the will.'
 Otho would have been Bilbo's heir, but for the adoption of Frodo. He read the will carefully and
snorted. It was, unfortunately, very clear and correct (according to the legal customs of hobbits,
which demand among other things seven signatures of witnesses in red ink).
 'Foiled again!' he said to his wife. 'And after waiting _sixty_ years. Spoons? Fiddlesticks!' He
snapped his fingers under Frodo's nose and slumped off. But Lobelia was not so easily got rid of. A
little later Frodo came out of the study to see how things were going on and found her still about
the place, investigating nooks and comers and tapping the floors. He escorted her firmly off the
premises, after he had relieved her of several small (but rather valuable) articles that had somehow
fallen inside her umbrella. Her face looked as if she was in the throes of thinking out a really
crushing parting remark; but all she found to say, turning round on the step, was:
 'You'll live to regret it, young fellow! Why didn't you go too? You don't belong here; you're no
Baggins – you – you're a Brandybuck!'
 'Did you hear that, Merry? That was an insult, if you like,' said Frodo as he shut the door on her.
 'It was a compliment,' said Merry Brandybuck, 'and so, of course, not true.'
 Then they went round the hole, and evicted three young hobbits (two Boffins and a Bolger) who
were knocking holes in the walls of one of the cellars. Frodo also had a tussle with young Sancho
Proudfoot (old Odo Proudfoot's grandson), who had begun an excavation in the larger pantry,
where he thought there was an echo. The legend of Bilbo's gold excited both curiosity and hope; for
legendary gold (mysteriously obtained, if not positively ill-gotten), is, as every one knows, any
one's for the finding – unless the search is interrupted. blame was mostly laid on Gandalf.
 'If only that dratted wizard will leave young Frodo alone, perhaps he'll settle down and grow
some hobbit-sense,' they said. And to all appearance the wizard did leave Frodo alone, and he did
settle down, but the growth of hobbit-sense was not very noticeable. Indeed, he at once began to
carry on Bilbo's reputation for oddity. He refused to go into mourning; and the next year he gave a
party in honour of Bilbo's hundred-and-twelfth birthday, which he called Hundred-weight Feast.
But that was short of the mark, for twenty guests were invited and there were several meals at
which it snowed food and rained drink, as hobbits say.
 Some people were rather shocked; but Frodo kept up the custom of giving Bilbo's Birthday
Party year after year until they got used to it. He said that he did not think Bilbo was dead. When
they asked: 'Where is he then?' he shrugged his shoulders.
 He lived alone, as Bilbo had done; but he had a good many friends, especially among the
younger hobbits (mostly descendants of the Old Took) who had as children been fond of Bilbo and
often in and out of Bag End. Folco Boffin and Fredegar Bolger were two of these; but his closest
friends were Peregrin Took (usually called Pippin), and Merry Brandybuck (his real name was
Meriadoc, but that was seldom remembered). Frodo went tramping all over the Shire with them;
but more often he wandered by himself, and to the amazement of sensible folk he was sometimes
seen far from home walking in the hills and woods under the starlight. Merry and Pippin suspected
that he visited the Elves at times, as Bilbo had done.
 As time went on, people began to notice that Frodo also showed signs of good 'preservation':
outwardly he retained the appearance of a robust and energetic hobbit just out of his tweens. 'Some
folk have all the luck,' they said; but it was not until Frodo approached the usually more sober age
of fifty that they began to think it queer.
 Frodo himself, after the first shock, found that being his own master and _the_ Mr. Baggins of
Bag End was rather pleasant. For some years he was quite happy and did not worry much about the
future. But half unknown to himself the regret that he had not gone with Bilbo was steadily
growing. He found himself wondering at times, especially in the autumn, about the wild lands, and
strange visions of mountains that he had never seen came into his dreams. He began to say to
himself: 'Perhaps I shall cross the River myself one day.' To which the other half of his mind
always replied: 'Not yet.'
 So it went on, until his forties were running out, and his fiftieth birthday was drawing near: fifty
was a number that he felt was somehow significant (or ominous); it was at any rate at that age that
adventure had suddenly befallen Bilbo. Frodo began to feel restless, and the old paths seemed too
well-trodden. He looked at maps, and wondered what lay beyond their edges: maps made in the
Shire showed mostly white spaces beyond its borders. He took to wandering further afield and
more often by himself; and Merry and his other friends watched him anxiously. Often he was seen
walking and talking with the strange wayfarers that began at this time to appear in the Shire.
 There were rumours of strange things happening in the world outside; and as Gandalf had not at
that time appeared or sent any message for several years, Frodo gathered all the news he could.
Elves, who seldom walked in the Shire, could now be seen passing westward through the woods in
the evening, passing and not returning; but they were leaving Middle-earth and were no longer
concerned with its troubles. There were, however, dwarves on the road in unusual numbers. The
ancient East-West Road ran through the Shire to its end at the Grey Havens, and dwarves had
always used it on their way to their mines in the Blue Mountains. They were the hobbits' chief
source of news from distant parts – if they wanted any: as a rule dwarves said little and hobbits
asked no more. But now Frodo often met strange dwarves of far countries, seeking refuge in the
West. They were troubled, and some spoke in whispers of the Enemy and of the Land of Mordor. That name the hobbits only knew in legends of the dark past, like a shadow in the background of
their memories; but it was ominous and disquieting. It seemed that the evil power in Mirkwood had
been driven out by the White Council only to reappear in greater strength in the old strongholds of
Mordor. The Dark Tower had been rebuilt, it was said. From there the power was spreading far and
wide, and away far east and south there were wars and growing fear. Orcs were multiplying again
in the mountains. Trolls were abroad, no longer dull-witted, but cunning and armed with dreadful
weapons. And there were murmured hints of creatures more terrible than all these, but they had no
name. to find it. I have come back from dark journeys and long search to make that final test. It is the last
proof, and all is now only too clear. Making out Gollum's part, and fitting it into the gap in the
history, required some thought. I may have started with guesses about Gollum, but I am not
guessing now. I know. I have seen him.' 'Not so clearly. What I have told you is what Gollum was willing to tell – though not, of course,
in the way I have reported it. Gollum is a liar, and you have to sift his words. For instance, he
called the Ring his "birthday present", and he stuck to that. He said it came from his grandmother,
I endured him as long as I could, but the truth was desperately important, and in the end I had to
be harsh. I put the fear of fire on him, and wrung the true story out of him, bit by bit, together with
much snivelling and snarling. He thought he was misunderstood and ill-used. But when he had at
last told me his history, as far as the end of the Riddle-game and Bilbo's escape, he would not say
any more, except in dark hints. Some other fear was on him greater than mine. He muttered that he
was going to gel his own back. People would see if he would stand being kicked, and driven into a
hole and then _robbed._ Gollum had good friends now, good friends and very strong. They would
help him. Baggins would pay for it. That was his chief thought. He hated Bilbo and cursed his
name. What is more, he knew where he came from But how did he find that out?' asked Frodo.
 'Well, as for the name, Bilbo very foolishly told Gollum himself; and after that it would not be
difficult to discover his country, once Gollum came out. Oh yes, he came out. His longing for the
Ring proved stronger than his fear of the Orcs, or even of the light. After a year or two he left the
mountains. You see, though still bound by desire of it, the Ring was no longer devouring him; he
began to revive a little. He felt old, terribly old, yet less timid, and he was mortally hungry.
 'Light, light of Sun and Moon, he still feared and hated, and he always will, I think; but he was
cunning. He found he could hide from daylight and moonshine, and make his way swiftly and
softly by dead of night with his pale cold eyes, and catch small frightened or unwary things. He
grew stronger and bolder with new food and new air. He found his way into Mirkwood, as one
would expect.'
 'Is that where you found him?' asked Frodo.
 'I saw him there,' answered Gandalf, 'but before that he had wandered far, following Bilbo's trail.
It was difficult to learn anything from him for certain, for his talk was constantly interrupted by
curses and threats. "What had it got in its pocketses?" he said. "It wouldn't say, no precious. Little
cheat. Not a fair question. It cheated first, it did. It broke the rules. We ought to have squeezed it,
yes precious. And we will, precious!" 'That is a sample of his talk. I don't suppose you want any more. I had weary days of it. But from
hints dropped among the snarls I even gathered that his padding feet had taken him at last to
Esgaroth, and even to the streets of Dale, listening secretly and peering. Well, the news of the great
events went far and wide in Wilderland, and many had heard Bilbo's name and knew where he
came from. We had made no secret of our return journey to his home in the West. Gollum's sharp
ears would soon learn what he wanted.'
 'Then why didn't he track Bilbo further?' asked Frodo. 'Why didn't he come to the Shire?'
 'Ah,' said Gandalf, 'now we come to it. I think Gollum tried to. He set out and came back
westward, as far as the Great River. But then he turned aside. He was not daunted by the distance, I
am sure. No, something else drew him away. So my friends think, those that hunted him for me.
 'The Wood-elves tracked him first, an easy task for them, for his trail was still fresh then.
Through Mirkwood and back again it led them, though they never caught him. The wood was full
of the rumour of him, dreadful tales even among beasts and birds. The Woodmen said that there
was some new terror abroad, a ghost that drank blood. It climbed trees to find nests; it crept into
holes to find the young; it slipped through windows to find cradles. 'But at the western edge of Mirkwood the trail turned away. It wandered off southwards and
passed out of the Wood-elves' ken, and was lost. And then I made a great mistake. Yes, Frodo, and
not the first; though I fear it may prove the worst. I let the matter be. I let him go; for I had much
else to think of at that time, and I still trusted the lore of Saruman.
 'Well, that was years ago. I have paid for it since with many dark and dangerous days. The trail
was long cold when I took it up again, after Bilbo left here. And my search would have been in
vain, but for the help that I had from a friend: Aragorn, the greatest traveller and huntsman of this
age of the world. Together we sought for Gollum down the whole length of Wilderland, without
hope, and without success. But at last, when I had given up the chase and turned to other parts,
Gollum was found. My friend returned out of the great perils bringing the miserable creature with
him.
 'What he had been doing he would not say. He only wept and called us cruel, with many a
_gollum_ in his throat; and when we pressed him he whined and cringed, and rubbed his long
hands, licking his fingers as if they pained him, as if he remembered some old torture. But I am
afraid there is no possible doubt: he had made his slow, sneaking way, step by step, mile by mile,
south, down at last to the Land of Mordor.'
 A heavy silence fell in the room. Frodo could hear his heart be