I can tell Jordan may have let his fans know about his soon-to-be-expanded family, but he
hasn’t bothered calling his own brother. Nice. Also, typical of Jordan.
“Jordan and Tania are expecting,” I explain to Cooper.
Cooper looks horrified—the appropriate reaction, under the circumstances.
“You’re kidding me,” he says. He doesn’t add, What happened? Did the condom break, or
something? because he’s too classy. You can tell he’s totally thinking it, though. Because
anyone who knows them would think that.
“Yeah,” I say. “Apparently their publicist posted it on their websites this morning.”
“Well,” Cooper says. “That’s great. Good for them. I’ll have to go buy them a…rattle. Or
something.”
“Yeah,” I say. Then, seeing that Tad is standing there clutching his bag of three-bean salad
and protein shake and looking at me with his eyebrows raised expectantly, I say, “Well. We
better go eat, I guess. Before someone else gets shot.”
No one laughs at my little joke. Which I guess wasn’t really all that funny after all. But, you
know. Like Sarah says: Often we resort to gallows humor in an effort to break the connection
between a horrifying stimulus and an unwanted emotional response.
  
“Yeah,” I say, taking Tad’s arm. “Okay. So, let’s go eat. See you, Coop.”
And I steer my boyfriend inside.
7
My doctor says there’s no shot
There’s no pill
Your love’s gotta run its course
Gonna make me ill
“Lovesick”
Written by Heather Wells
Tad is concerned about me. That’s what he keeps saying. That he’s concerned.
“It’s just,” he says, “that it could have been you.”
I put down my fork. We’re sitting in the Fischer Hall cafeteria, in a dark, out-of-the-way
corner where, if Tad wanted to, he could ask the question he’d shied away from asking this
morning, because the time wasn’t right.
Although truthfully, if the time wasn’t right when we were both naked in the shower, the time
probably isn’t right when we’re eating three-bean salad a few hours after my finding my boss
with a bullet through his head.
“No,” I say. “It couldn’t have been me, Tad. First of all, there isn’t even a window in my
office. Remember? That’s what the grate’s for. To let in a little natural light. And second of
all, whoever shot Owen obviously had something against him. No one has anything against
me. I’m not that kind of person.”
“Oh? And Dr. Veatch was?” Tad laughs, but not like he actually thinks what I said was very
funny. Especially the part about the grate. I get that a lot (people not actually thinking I’m as
funny as I think I am). “A balding, divorced, middle-aged college administrator?”
“Who knows?” I shrug. “I mean, it’s not like I ever saw him outside of work. Maybe he was
selling babies on the black market, or something.”
“Heather!”
“Well, you know what I mean.” I pick through my bean salad with my fork, hoping that
through some miracle I’ll come across some stray piece of ham or macaroni something. No
such luck, however. Where’s a damned rigatoni when you need it?
  
“All I’m saying is that there’s a killer on the loose, Heather,” Tad says urgently. “He went for
your boss, a man who as far as we know is about as threatening as—as this three-bean salad.
That’s all I’m saying. And I’m…well, I’m really glad it wasn’t you.”
I look up from my plastic container with a laugh, thinking Tad’s kidding…I mean, of course
he’s glad I wasn’t the one who got shot in the gourd, right? There’s no need actually to say
this out loud, is there?
But apparently, to Tad, there is. Because he’s also reaching across the table to take my hand.
Now he’s looking tenderly into my eyes.
Oh God. He’s serious. What do I say? What can I say?
“Um. Thanks. I’m…uh. I’m glad it wasn’t me, too.”
We’re sitting there like that, holding hands across our three-bean salads, when Sarah strides
up, a mulish expression on her face.
“Hello,” she says, but not in a salutary greeting sort of way. More in a where-have-you-been?
sort of way. “There you are. Everyone is looking for you. There’s an emergency
administrative housing staff meeting in the second floor library upstairs. Like, now. The only
person who’s not there is you.”
I jump up, sliding a napkin over my mouth. “Oh my God, really? I had no idea. Sorry, Tad, I
better go—”
Tad looks perturbed. “But you haven’t even finished your protein shake—”
“I’ll be all right,” I assure him—no offense, but that protein shake had tasted like chemical
waste. “I’ll call you later, okay?”
I refrain from kissing him good-bye—it’s the cafeteria, crowded with residents on their lunch
break, and our relationship is still supposed to be purely student/teacher, after all—and settle
for giving his hand a quick squeeze before I follow a still scowling Sarah past Magda’s desk,
out into the lobby, and up the stairs to the second floor library, which still contains the
nineteenth-century mahogany bookcases that once held the Fischer family’s extensive
leather-bound collection of classic literature, and where we’ve attempted, numerous times, to
keep books, only to have every single one of them stolen, no matter how battered or cheesy-
looking the cover, and then sold on St. Mark’s Place.
The room is still amazingly popular, however, with residents who have a test to study for and
who need to get away from their partying roommates. I’m the one who made up and posted
the Shhhh! Quiet Study Only Please! and Group Study Down the Hall in Rm 211 signs and
posted them under the plaster cherub moldings that a hundred years earlier had looked down
on sherry parties, not kids pounding on Mac-Books. But whatever.
“What’s going on?” I ask Sarah, as we trot up the stairs. “What’s the meeting for?”
  
“I wouldn’t know,” Sarah says with a sniff. “Student staff is not invited. Our meeting is
tonight at nine. Once again, we apparently aren’t considered good enough to mingle with the
exalted professional staff.”
“I’m sure it’s just because they figured the majority of you would be in class right now,” I
say, taken aback—mainly at the bitterness in her tone. Sarah hates not being involved in
anything that the professional staff is doing…for which I don’t blame her, exactly. She
certainly works as hard (if not harder) as any of us, and for room and board only, on top of
which, she goes to class full-time. It really does suck that now the college is planning on
yanking her insurance and everything else. She has every right to complain—even to strike.
I just wish there were some other way the GSC could have gotten the president’s office to
listen to them than to resort to such an extreme. Couldn’t they all just sit down and talk?
Then again, I guess they’d tried that. Hadn’t that been what Owen’s job was?
Look how well that had turned out.
“How’s it going?” I ask her, as we reach the second floor—quiet at this time of day, since
most of the residents are either in class or downstairs, eating. “I mean, with the GSC stuff,
now that Dr. Veatch is…you know. Out of the picture? I know it’s only been a few hours, but
has there been any…progress?”
“How do you think it’s going?” Sarah demands hotly.
“Oh, Sarah,” I say. “I’m sorry—”
“Whatever,” Sarah says, with uncharacteristic—even for her—venom. “I bet I can tell you
exactly what’s going to happen at this meeting you’re about to step into. President Allington
is going to appoint someone—Dr. Jessup, probably—as interim ombudsman—until a
replacement for Dr. Veatch can be found. Which is ironic, because Dr. Veatch was a
replacement until a replacement for Tom could be found. Sebastian insisted it wouldn’t go
down like this—that once Veatch was out of the picture, Dr. Allington would have to meet
with us one on one. I tried to tell him. I tried to tell him that would never happen. I mean,
why would Phillip Allington sully his own hands with filth like us, when he can hire
someone—someone else—to do it?”
To my surprise, Sarah bursts into tears—right in the second floor hallway, in front of the
second floor RA’s safe sex bulletin board display. Concerned—for more reasons than one—I
put my arms around her, cradling her head against my shoulder as her crazy frizzy hair tickles
my nose.
“Sarah,” I say, patting her back. “Come on. Seriously. It’s not that bad. I mean, it’s bad that a
guy is dead, and all. But your parents already said they’ll pay your insurance. I mean, they
just bought a winter place in Taos. It’s not like six hundred more bucks a semester is going to
break the bank. And don’t Sebastian’s parents own every movie theater in Grosse Pointe or
something? He’s not exactly hurting for cash, either…”
  
“That’s not it,” Sarah sobs, into my neck. “It’s the principle of the thing! What about people
who don’t have parents with seven-figure-a-year incomes? Don’t they deserve to be allowed
to go to Health Services? Don’t they deserve health care?”
“Of course they do,” I say. “But you know, it’s not all up to Dr. Allington. A lot of the
decision over whether or not to negotiate a new contract with you guys is up to the board of
trustees—”
“I told Sebastian that,” Sarah says, abruptly letting go of my neck, and wiping her tears with
the backs of her wrists. “God. He’s so…adversarial.”
I want to warn her about her word choice—especially with the likelihood of the police
looking to the GSC for possible suspects in Owen’s murder—but don’t get a chance to,
because the door to the library suddenly pops open, and Tom, who’d been my boss here at
Fischer Hall a few months earlier, until he’d been promoted, looks out, sees me, then hisses,
“There you are! Get in here! You’re about to miss all the good stuff!”
I know by good stuff he means hilarity in the form of senior administrators making asses of
themselves, something the two of us thoroughly enjoy observing, usually seeking the back
row during staff meetings, so we can watch it together.
“I’ll be right there,” I say to Tom. To Sarah I say, trying to push some of her excessively
bushy hair out of her face, “I have to go. Are you going to be all right? I’m worried about
you.”
“What?” Sarah lifts her head, and the tears are, miraculously, gone. Well, mostly. There are
still a few brimming, unshed, in her eyelashes. But they could be mistaken for an allergic
reaction to the pollen season. “I’m fine. Whatever. Go on. You better go. Don’t want to be
late to your big important meeting.”
I eye her uncertainly. “Is Detective Canavan still down in my office? Because if he’s not—”
“I know,” she says, rolling those tear-filled eyes sarcastically. “Somebody ought to be down
there manning it to make sure the residents have someone to talk to about the recent tragedy.
Don’t worry. I’m on it.”
“Good,” I say. “When I’m through here, you and I are having a talk.”
“That’ll be good,” Sarah says, with a sneer. “Can’t wait.”
I give her one last concerned look, then slip through the door Tom’s holding open.
“I see Miss Pissy Pants,” Tom says, referring to Sarah, “hasn’t changed a bit since I left.”
“She’s had a tough week,” I say, in Sarah’s defense. “She’s fallen in love with the head of the
GSC, and he doesn’t know she’s alive.”
Tom doesn’t look the least bit sympathetic. “Now why would she want to go and do that?
That guy barely even bathes. And he carries a murse. Like I need to point that out.”
  
I nod, then turn to see that the whole of the Housing Department—well, all nine of the
residence hall directors; their assistant hall directors; the three area coordinators; the on-staff
psychologist, Dr. Flynn; the department head, Dr. Jessup; Dr. Gillian Kilgore, grief
counselor; a man I’ve never seen before; President Allington; and, for some reason, Muffy
Fowler—are gathered into the Fischer Hall library, all perched on the institutional blue vinyl
couches (or, more accurately, love seats, since whole couches would have encouraged
residents to sleep there, and we want the students to sleep in their rooms, not the common
areas).
“Well,” Dr. Jessup says, when he sees me—and it’s clear Sarah hadn’t been exaggerating.
The whole staff really has been waiting on me for the meeting to begin. He pauses while Tom
and I find seats—in the back. And, because all the love seats are taken, we’re forced to settle
on the beige carpeting (it doesn’t show the spilled soda stains as much) with our backs
against the walls, just beneath a bank of windows looking out across Washington Square
Park. Tom immediately uncaps the Montblanc his parents got him for graduation and scrawls,
Welcome to HELL! across the top of a blank page of his Day Runner.
Thanks, I mouth back. I miss Tom. Life had been so much better back when he’d been my
boss. For one thing, there’d been the fact that we’d taken turns all day going shoe shopping
over on Eighth Street, when we weren’t gossiping about the residents and listening to Kelly
Clarkson on iTunes.
And for another, Tom had never cared where I’d gotten our paper for the copier. As long as
there’d been some.
Then there was the small fact that Tom had never been stupid enough to get himself shot in
the head.
“Now that we’re all here,” Dr. Jessup goes on, “let me tell you why you’re here. I’m sure you
all know that this morning, we experienced a tragic event here in Fischer Hall that will have
repercussions not just through our department, but throughout the college itself. Owen
Veatch—interim director here at Fischer Hall, and ombudsman to the president’s office, was
killed by a single bullet to the back of the head this morning in his office. While I’m certain
none of us really got to know Owen Veatch this semester as well as we’d have liked to, what
we did know of him led us to believe he was a good man who didn’t deserve to die in the
horrible, tragic way that he did.”
Tom leans over to whisper, “That’s two.”
I look at him. “Two what?” I whisper back.
“Two tragics,” he hisses. “Tragic event, and horrible tragic way.”
Solemnly, Tom writes the word Tragic at the top of his blank Day Runner page, then makes
two hatchmarks beneath it.
“And we’re off,” he whispers happily.
“Who’s that guy?” I whisper, pointing at the only person in the room I’ve never seen before.
  
“You don’t know who that is?” Tom looks scandalized. “That’s Reverend Mark Halstead.
He’s the new interdenominational campus youth minister.”
I stare at Reverend Mark. He has the bland good looks of a sports announcer. He’s wearing
carefully faded jeans with a sports coat and tie. He sitting on one of the arms of the love seat
Muffy Fowler is sharing with Gillian Kilgore. Muffy is leaning forward in her seat with both
her elbows on her knees and staring up at Dr. Jessup with her lips slightly parted.
I can’t help noticing that she’s recently reapplied her lip gloss.
And that Reverend Mark has a bird’s-eye view right down the front of Muffy’s frilly white
blouse.
“We wanted to bring you all together this afternoon,” Dr. Jessup is saying, “to assure you that
the police are doing everything they can to get to the bottom of this tragic crime—”
Solemnly, Tom makes another hatchmark in his Day Runner.
“—and that this appears, by all indications, to be a random, isolated incident of senseless
violence. In no way are any other members of this staff in jeopardy. Yes, Simon?”
Simon Hague, the director of Wasser Hall, Fischer Hall’s bitterest rival (in my mind), due to
its having its own pool in the basement (and also to its not bearing the unfortunate nickname
of Death Dorm), lowers his hand and says, in his usual insufferable (to me, anyway) whine,
“Um, fine, right. You say that. That no other members of the staff are in jeopardy. But what
is anyone doing to ensure that? I mean, how do we know that none of us is next? How do we
know other members of the staff aren’t being targeted?”
Several other hall directors nod their heads. Tom draws a small doodle of a man who looks a
lot like Simon. Then he draws his head exploding.
“So,” he whispers conversationally. “How’s the man?”
I blink at him. “You mean Tad?”
He rolls his eyes. “No. I mean the one you actually like. Cooper. How’s he doing? I haven’t
seen him in ages.”
“He’s fine,” I reply…a little bleakly, I’ll admit.
And, okay, I know we were at a meeting about my boss, whom I’d found dead a few hours
earlier, and it was tragic (as we knew all too well), a man killed for no reason, and in his
prime, and all of that.
But I need some dating advice. And who better to ask than a gay man?
“Tad asked me this morning if I could take time off this summer, then told me he has
something he wants to ask me, when the time is right,” I whisper. “And I don’t think he’s
talking about a share on the Jersey shore.”
  
Tom looks appropriately horrified.
“What? Are you serious? You’ve only been dating him, what, a month?”
“Try three,” I whisper back. “And you’re one to talk. Or are you not basically living with the
New York College basketball coach?”
“That’s different.” Tom is indignant now. “We can’t get married. His parents don’t know
he’s gay.”
“Now, Detective Canavan, from the Sixth Precinct, assures me,” Dr. Jessup says, looking a
little bit shiny along the hairline beneath the fluorescent lights (the library’s original
chandeliers were removed, along with its asbestos ductwork, and replaced with a dropped
ceiling back in the seventies), “that he and his people are doing everything they can to find a
quick resolution to this tragedy”—Tom waffles over whether or not to add a hatchmark, but
then finally does so—“but he seems quite certain that no one is targeting members of the—”
“Why doesn’t someone just come out and say it?” The hall director of a building down on
Wall Street, which the college had to purchase because there was no more room left on
campus, stands up and glares at everyone else accusingly. “We all know who did this. And
why! It was the GSC! Sebastian Blumenthal has to have been behind it! Let’s not kid
ourselves!”
Bedlam ensues. Most people seem to be of the opinion that Sebastian had to have done it.
This belief seems to be based solely on the fact that Sebastian has long hair and appears to
bathe irregularly.
This causes Reverend Mark to observe that a certain savior could also be described this way,
but that he never killed anyone.
This remark so delights Tom that he looks up toward the dropped ceiling and mouths, Thank
you, God. Then he shouts, to no one in particular, “But what about his murse?”
Dr. Jessup wanders around the room, trying to get everyone to calm down by insisting that in
this country, citizens—even long-haired, unwashed graduate students—are innocent until
proven guilty, but to no avail. Several of the male assistant hall directors offer to go out and
find Sebastian and beat him to a pulp (they, like me, are working on attaining their bachelor’s
degrees, in criminal justice, hospitality management, and physical training, respectively).
Finally Drs. Kilgore and Flynn attempt to achieve order by standing on their love seats and
clapping their hands and shouting, “People, people! Please! People! We are professionals in
higher education, not common street thugs!”
Of course this has no effect at all.
But Tom grabbing the fire extinguisher off the wall and setting off a burst of CO
in the
2
middle of the room certainly does. Since this is how he routinely busts up parties over at the
frat building, where he lives and works, he does so with an almost comically bored
expression on his face.
“Everybody,” he says, in a monotone. “Sit.”
  
It’s amazing how quickly everyone hurries to do so. Tom may know more Judy Garland
songs by heart than anyone else in the room, but he’s also a six-foot-three, two-hundred-
pound former Texas A&M linebacker. You don’t want to mess with him.
“People, please,” Dr. Jessup says, now that Tom has restored order. “Let’s try to remember
where we are…and who we are. When the police have the evidence they need in order to
make an arrest, they will. In the meantime, please. Let’s not make things worse by rushing to
conclusions and pointing fingers where there’s no conclusive proof.”
Seriously.
I wonder, though, if I ought to warn Sarah to say something to Sebastian after all. The kid
really should be laying low, considering what I’ve just witnessed. At least, if he knows
what’s good for him.
“Mark,” Dr. Kilgore says, templing her fingers (a clear indication, Sarah would be quick to
point out, that she thinks she’s superior to all of us). “I wonder…don’t you think now would
be a good time to lead us all in a moment of silence in Owen’s memory?”
“Absolutely,” Reverend Mark says, leaping up from the arm of the love seat onto which he’d
sunk once again, and then bowing his dark-haired head. Everyone in the room, including me,
joins him.
“Oh, Heavenly Father,” the reverend intones, in his deep, pleasant voice. “We ask that
You…”
Tom, who’s lowered himself back down onto the carpet beside me, gives me a nudge. I
glance at him from beneath my hair. “What? This is supposed to be a moment of silence, you
know.”
“I know. Sorry. But I forgot. What is this?” he whispers. “Your third boss this year?”
“Yes,” I whisper back. “Shhhh.” His newfound snarkiness is a testament to how comfortable
Tom feels in his new job—and romantic relationship.
And I’m happy for him. I really am.
But the snark can also be a little trying.
Tom is silent for another two seconds. Then:
“You should quit,” Tom whispers.
“I can’t quit,” I say. “I need the tuition remission. Not to mention the money. Shhh.”
Silence for another three seconds. Then:
“Don’t quit yet,” Tom whispers. “You should wait until you’ve had eight bosses. Then you
should quit. And you should be like, Eight is enough!”
  
8
January’s guy was just too cold
February’s was way too old
March’s guy came too late
April’s guy simply couldn’t wait
“Calendar Boys”
Written by Heather Wells
The real horror doesn’t begin until after the routine announcements that follow the moment of
silence. Tom will be acting as interim-interim hall director of Fischer Hall until a replacement
interim hall director can be found. (I long to high-five him when I hear this, but as I feel all
gazes turn in my direction when this is announced, settle for looking sadly at my shoes. I am,
after all, the person who found my boss’s body this morning. None of them has to know I sort
of hated the guy.)
The dean of student affairs, we are assured, will be sending around a mass e-mail
acknowledging the passing of a staff member—though not referring to the tragic (hatchmark)
nature of the death—and urging the entire college community to take advantage of
counseling service’s grief workshops.
A memorial service—date and location to be announced—is being organized by Reverend
Mark. Dr. Veatch’s soon-to-be-ex-wife and family (Owen had a family? People who actually
liked him?) are on their way. In light of the tragedy (hatchmark), they will be accommodated
without charge at Wasser Hall in the VIP guest suites (those bastards—by which I mean
Wasser Hall, of course, not Dr. Veatch’s family. Seriously, though, they are such suck-ups
over there. Like it’s not enough they have a pool—and no murders. They have to rub it in by
having VIP guest suites, too?) normally reserved for visiting dignitaries and people on whom
the college is bestowing honorary degrees (last year: Neil Diamond. The year before: Tippi
Hedren).
That’s when Drs. Jessup, Kilgore, and Flynn make their last and final announcement…the
one that strikes cold, hard terror to my—and, as his reaction illustrates, Tom’s—veins: that,
because we’ve obviously been so torn apart by this tragedy (hatchmark), as well as the recent
divisiveness involving the GSC, a team building exercise is in order.
Tom and I fling each other panicky looks. Team building exercise?
“Sweet Mother of God,” Tom breathes. “No. Anything but that.”
Unfortunately, Dr. Kilgore, with whom both Tom and I have had the misfortune of working
closely in the past, overhears this. She sends us both a glance so sharp, it stings.
“Participation,” she says, her enunciation crisp, “is mandatory.”
  
But apparently not for college presidents, since President Allington abruptly excuses himself,
saying he has an important appointment (with a scotch bottle, if he has any sense at all) and
leaves. I expect Muffy Fowler to follow him out—she’s not part of housing staff, after all.
But then I notice she’s managed to get her three-carat cocktail diamond snagged on the front
of Reverend Mark’s sports jacket, and she decides, oh, what the heck, she might as well stay,
since it might be a hoot.
Seriously. These are her exact words.
The team building exercise turns out to be even more horrific than either Tom or I could have
anticipated. Dr. Flynn brings out a pile of unclaimed newspapers he’s snagged from behind
the front desk downstairs. Then we’re told to divide into teams of five, and each team is
handed a stack of newspapers. Tom and I instantly grasp one another, so we can be on one
another’s team—“She’s been through so much already today, she really needs me,” Tom
assures Dr. Kilgore, when she raises a skeptical eyebrow at this, since the goal of the exercise
is to get to know staff members with whom we might not otherwise be well acquainted.
Somehow, our other teammates end up being Reverend Mark, Muffy Fowler, and—because
she assigns herself to our team, undoubtedly to keep an eye on Tom and me—Dr. Kilgore.
“Now,” Dr. Flynn begins, when each team has assembled on their assigned love
seat…though, none of the love seats being large enough to accommodate a whole team, Tom
and I find ourselves, once again, seated on the floor. “I’m sure you’re asking yourselves,
what are we doing with these newspapers? Well, people, I want you to work together with
your team to use these newspapers to build a free-standing structure large enough for your
team to seek shelter in it.”
Simon, the director of Wasser Hall, looks furious. “How are we supposed to do that? We
don’t have any scissors. Or tape!”
“I am aware of that, Simon,” Dr. Flynn says calmly. “You do, however, have a master’s in
sociology, and four equally well-educated teammates, all of whom excel in their people
skills. I think, by working together, you should be able to construct some sort of structure into
which the five of you can fit for at least the moment it takes for your work to be scored—”
“We’re being GRADED on this?” someone else yells, clearly outraged.
“I hardly think that an event meant to build team spirit should be scored,” someone else
chimes in.
“Now, now,” Dr. Jessup says. “It’s all in good fun. Dr. Veatch would have wanted it that
way.”
I don’t think anyone in this room actually has any idea what Dr. Veatch would have wanted,
since no one here—including me—really knew him. Maybe he would have thought that
making houses out of newspaper was fun.
He definitely would have been in favor of scoring the houses, if you ask me.
“Isn’t this a riot?” Muffy asks, as our team gets to work on our house.
  
“Oh yeah,” Tom says. “I’d much rather be here than in my office.”
Tom is totally lying. His office computer is loaded with Madden NFL, his favorite video
game. He plays it all day…when he isn’t busy busting up keg parties and attempted date
rapes. He’d play it all night, too, if his boyfriend Steve would let him.
“Me, too,” Reverend Mark says cheerfully. Then he looks at me and stops smiling. “Although
of course I’m sad for the reason why we’re here.”
Muffy stops smiling, too. “That’s right,” she says, looking at me with her big dark Bambi
eyes practically tear-filled. How does she do that…and right on cue, too? “You two worked
together. You must be devastated. Just devastated.”
“You were Dr. Veatch’s secretary?” Reverend Mark asks, looking at me with
concern…coupled with the sick fascination everybody feels for someone who’s recently
stumbled across a corpse.
“Administrative assistant,” both Tom and Dr. Kilgore correct him, at the same time.
“Why don’t we get started on our structure,” Dr. Kilgore adds, holding up our pile of
newspapers between a thumb and forefinger, clearly not wanting to get ink smeared on her
clothing. The New York Times is notoriously smeary. “How do you propose we do this?”
“Well, it’s got to be free-standing, right?” Tom takes the newspapers from Dr. Kilgore,
clearly losing patience with her girlishness. “Why don’t we make four supports, like this”—
he rolls a few sheets into a thick, sticklike object—“and use them as props, and just stick
another sheet over it, as a roof.”
“Bingo,” I say, pleased. “Done and done.”
“Um,” Reverend Mark says. “No offense, but I did some mission work in Japan, and I was
thinking if we folded each piece, like so—here, let me demonstrate…”
Reverend Mark takes the papers away from Tom and begins to do some kind of fancy tearing
and folding technique thingie. Muffy and Dr. Kilgore watch him, clearly impressed by the
way his fingers are flying over the newsprint.
“My goodness, Mark—may I call you Mark?” Muffy asks.
“Of course,” Mark says.
“Well, my goodness, Mark, but you do that so well.”
“In many cultures paper folding is considered an art,” Reverend Mark says conversationally,
“but it’s actually more closely associated with mathematics. Some classical construction
problems in geometry, for instance, can’t be solved using a compass or a straight edge, but
can be solved using only a few paper folds. Intriguing, no?”
Muffy’s dark eyes are wide and admiring. “Totally. The Japanese are so great. I just love
sushi.”
  
Tom and I exchange glances. Tom rolls his eyes.
“Good,” Dr. Flynn is walking around each group saying. “Good. I see that you’re all coming
together, working with one another. This is what Gillian and I were hoping we’d see. The
staff, overcoming adversity, defying tragedy—”
“Where’s my Day Runner?” Tom mutters.
“—and now, because I see this is way too easy for all of you, I’m going to throw a spanner in
the works, and—blindfold all of you!”
From out of a cardboard box Drs. Flynn and Kilgore have brought with them, Dr. Flynn
produces a couple dozen cheap silk scarves, which he proceeds to distribute with the
instructions that we’re to tie them around our eyes and proceed to build our newspaper
houses without looking.
“But if we can’t see,” Simon from Wasser Hall wails, “our houses will look like shit and
we’ll get a bad score!”
“Nonsense,” Dr. Flynn declares. “One teammate will remain unblindfolded. It’s up to all of
you to pick that teammate. And that teammate will guide the others.”
“I pick Mark,” Muffy says quickly.
“Oh,” Mark says, looking up from his complicated woven wall with an embarrassed
expression on his face. “Really, I—”
“I’d second that,” Gillian says mildly. She turns to look at me and Tom. “Do you two agree?”
“Um,” I say. We’ll be here all day if Mark is our team leader. I have no idea how he’s going
to teach us to do origami house walls. Especially if we’re all blindfolded. But whatever.
“Sure.”
“I don’t know,” Tom says slowly. He has a strange, dreamy look on his face that I don’t
recognize. “I mean, Heather’s been so traumatized today, walking into her office and finding
her beloved boss—not even her boss, but her mentor, really…isn’t that what you told me
Owen was to you, Heather? Your mentor?”
I stare at him. “What?”
“Don’t be modest,” Tom says. “We’re all friends here. We know how badly seeing Owen like
that freaked you out. You can admit it, Heather. This is a place of trust. I mean, seeing his
blood spattered all over my old desk—”
“Oh, Tom, for God’s sake,” Gillian says, looking disgusted.
“I’m just saying. I really think Heather should be team captain,” Tom says piously. “After
what she’s been through today, it would be cruel to make her wear a blindfold. She told me
earlier that every time she closes her eyes, she sees Owen’s brain matter coating his Dilbert
Month-at-a-Glance bulletin board—”
  
“Garfield,” I correct him.
“Would you two please—” Gillian begins, but Reverend Mark cuts her off.
“I agree with…Tom, is it?” Mark closes his eyes and shakes his head. “After what she’s been
through, Heather should completely be team captain.”
“I think so, too,” Muffy says quickly. She looks at Gillian with tears in her eyes. “It’s only
right.”
Dr. Kilgore looks like she’s about to have an aneurysm.
“Fine,” she says through gritted teeth, handing out the scarves she’s been handed by Dr.
Flynn. “Everyone put on one of these. Everyone but Heather.”
“You, too, right, Dr. Kilgore?” Tom asks, with a smile.
“Me, too,” Gillian says grimly, tying on her blindfold.
“Mark,” Muffy says. “I can’t quite get mine. Can you help?”
“Oh,” Reverend Mark says. “Well, mine’s on already…but I’ll try…”
Reverend Mark reaches out fumblingly for Muffy, and manages to grab a big handful of the
boob she’s thrust directly into his palm.
“Oh my God!” he cries, blanching.
“Oh!” Muffy blushes prettily beneath her blindfold, though I know full well she’s thrilled.
“That’s all right.”
“I’m so sorry!” Reverend Mark looks like he wants to kill himself. His handsome face has
gone from snow white to beet red in three seconds flat. Even his neck, all the way to his shirt
collar, is red.
