17 The Athabascan concept of ‘luck’ is complicated, and has to do with how success in living on the land comes best to those who ‘receive’ what the land has to offer, rather than to constantly ‘wish’ for the things they believe they need. This is related to the taboo enjee, which warns against the speaking of / predicting future events (Krupa 1999). 
Subsistence: Resource dependence that is primarily outside the cash sector of the economy. This term has a specific application in laws relating to Alaska wildlife, but has eluded a comprehensive definition. To indigenous peoples it describes their culture and their relationship to the land, and thus the economic definition seems inadequate (see Berger, 1985). To others, subsistence no longer exists in Alaska because the cash economy appears to predominate throughout the state, so that no one is truly dependent upon the land. (Huntington 1992:15-16) 
Subsistence is a word. You know, a word you use to describe a way of life, our life. Though it doesn’t do a very good job. We used to live off the land but now we live off of subsistence. Do you know what I mean? I mean we used to live on our luck17, what the land gave us. But now we supposed to live on what the subsistence rules says we can have. Supposed to be better that way. We just want to be left alone.Anonymous Alaska Native speaker at the 2007 Alaska Forum on the Environment 90 I have presented an overview of the contemporary geographic, social and ecological considerations of the Minto foodshed, but to understand the forces deconstructing the Minto foodshed requires also a review of the unique legal context within which Alaska Native communities operate. According to the current State of Alaska resource management regime, the country food harvest, termed ‘subsistence activities’ are defined in law as the “customary and traditional use of wild, renewable, fish and wildlife resources for food and other non-commercial purposes” (Alaska Statute 16.05.940(33)). The ramification of this, as the Native gentleman is alluding to in the quote above, is that the local foodshed, which once functioned in a highly flexible manner and was mediated by complex ecological relationships between people and between people and the landscape, is now also mediated by the regulatory frameworks of state and federal resource management agencies that this law (and others like it) espouses (Huntington 1992). 
      The origins of this legislation are in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA), which in 1971 created thirteen regional and local Native corporations with an economic and entitlement approach that differed significantly from the reservation and tribal model of the lower 48 states and parts of Canada. Through ANCSA, Alaska Natives received designated land and money as part of a land exchange to be divided among the state and federal government; these corporations were paid $962.5 million, and allowed to select forty-four million acres of land (Alaska is roughly 375 million acres in size) as compensation for the “extinguishment of their aboriginal title” (Case 1984; 91 
          18 For example, the first chapter in Alaska Subsistence: A National Park Service Management History by Norris (2002) is titled “Alaska Native and Rural Lifeways Prior to 1971” 
      Mitchell 2003). ANCSA failed to take formal action on rights protecting the access to and use for subsistence purposes of the lands forfeited in the deal. In response, the U.S. Congress passed the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) in 1980, attempting to return some level of subsistence rights to Alaska Native people, establishing the eligibility for subsistence priority in resource management decisions with three criteria:“(1) customary and direct dependence upon the populations as the mainstay of livelihood; (2) local residency; and (3) the availability of alternative resources” (ANILCA, PL96-847 S804). Further, ANILCA defines subsistence use as: 
Customary and traditional uses by rural Alaska residents of wild renewable resources for direct personal or family consumption as food, shelter, fuel, clothing, tools, or transportation; for the making and selling of handicraft articles out of non edible by-products of fish and ildlife resources taken for personal or family consumption; for barter, or sharing for personal or family consumption; and for customary trade. (ANILCA, PL 96-847 S803) 
      The timeline for what is and is not customary and traditional, however, is often fixed at 197118 – the year of the passage of ANCSA. The country food harvest has therefore been temporally fixed, extracted from the remainder of local life ways and placed into an artificial category that is reified by law and by the perceived need for ‘resource’ management. Alaskan Natives did not in the past divide their daily activities along lines that are clearly defined as modern or traditional, “for subsistence” or otherwise; they simply did what was necessary to make a living for themselves and their 92 families, working on landscapes in and around their local communities. Today Native Alaskans do use the phrase, to describe some tangible thing outside of their community that needed to be protected; one community member told me that he supported my research because “they need to support anything that will be good for subsistence.” Many also project the category upon everything they consider traditional and “worth saving” about their community’s way of life (as suggested in the Huntington quote above), as ‘subsistence’ is perceived by many to be their most viable legal venue for asserting cultural legitimacy and authority. In practice however this has the danger of further reducing/restricting their cultural heritage within exogenous definitions that are in fact largely out of their control. The irony embedded in the latter part of the Huntington quote cannot be missed, then, in how a concept that was only recently brought into existence in the first place can also considered to have just recently disappeared, especially in respect to the power that the word has in the contemporary socio-political dialog. 
3.5 “NEW” MINTO: COMING OUT OF THE FOODSHED 
The foodshed can provide a place for us to ground ourselves in the biological and social realities of living on the land and from the land in a place that we can call home, a place to which we are or can become native. 
Kloppenburg et al. 
“Coming into the Foodshed” 1996 93 
19 Though Reed does suggest that further research is necessary to monitor the potential negative health effects of new food and sedentary behavior (p220-224) 
      Though the community has been at its present location for almost 40 years, many people continue to call their village “New” Minto. The epithet is prophetic in how it captures this contemporary transition within the community that many still correlate with the 1969 relocation and the later building of the spur road that connects the new community to the Elliot Highway (Krupa 1999; Reed 1995). Reed documented in great detail the Minto foodways in 1995, in a dissertation that serves as an exemplary “foodshed analysis” for the community. With an eye towards the ongoing processes of “culture contact” and “culture change,” the work concludes that the community had succeeded overall in keeping control over their foodways, managing the transformation of new, store-bought foods into local culture19, a process she labels as “innovation” (p 225). When I first went to Minto, it was to participate in a community garden initiative as an intern with the University of Alaska Fairbanks’ Cooperative Extension Service (CES), funded by a fellowship from the USDA’s Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education program (SARE). The project, it seemed, was an interesting new chapter of innovation in the story told by Reed, with lessons perhaps for other Alaskan communities. At first glance, local foodways seemed congruous with her characterizations, but the more I participated in local activities with Chief Patrick Smith, the clearer it became that the changes Reed observed as rather innocuous and under local control are in fact the result of a very confusing combination of largely exogenous forces, and that many of the decisions local people were making, though they seemed to best directly address their immediate needs, had significant long-term ramifications for 94 20 Though the Minto flats are a popular hunting destination, passers-by are seldom in the village proper regardless of the time of year; in fact it is quite impossible to actually pass by, as the road that leads to Minto is a 11-mile spur road that splits off of the Elliot Highway and dead-ends at the Minto convenience store. The one exception to this is during the periods of time the Alaska Department of Fish and Game agents are distributing licenses for the moose hunt; this event brings hunters from around the state camping out in line in the village. 
      community vulnerability and well-being. The community, it seemed to me, was coming out of its foodshed. 
      The Minto Lodge, a 1980s-built hotel facility for which an impressive business plan was developed to promote the development of tourism in the industry, but is now mostly used as office space, continues to operate a restaurant that serves lunch to locals, often groups of elders, as well as the occasional passer-by20 out of their large and well-equipped kitchen (Village Council 1983). On the menu is not native fare, however, but hamburgers, french fries, coconut shrimp, even a “McMinto” chicken sandwich. The restaurant is, they report, called upon from time to time to prepare traditional foods on the seldom occasion that they are donated. Instead, the freezers are most commonly stocked with frozen food-stuffs distributed by companies like Tyson and SysCo, and purchased in Fairbanks at stores such as Fred Meyers and Sam’s Club. Similarly, the only conspicuously local products found in the Minto store and gas station, amongst the shelves of familiar crackers, canned meats, candy and soda-pop, are t-shirts and ball-caps bearing the logo for the “Seth-do-ya-ah Corporation”, the village’s non-profit arm. Though a few in the community do grow their own gardens (two households in 2005), the volume they produce is too low to consider them a noteworthy part of the local diet. 
      This is not a criticism of the community, nor a canvassing statement that suggests changes to traditional foodways are always bad; indeed the constant alteration, adaptation 95 and transformation of dietary patterns, e.g. the integration of new types of food, food processing and preparation methods, is assumed here to be an important aspect of adaptation that is characteristic of Athabascan life ways. Too, it is often the presence/influence of another culture’s foodways that delineates the very boundaries of traditionality, and serves to further strengthen community ties and shared identity through a sense of belonging (Brown and Mussell 1985). Nor is the previous passage intended to suggest that country foods have been abandoned in Minto: much to the contrary wild fish and game are preferred in the villages, especially by Elders. But access to relatively cheap and consistent sources of imported foodstuffs undeniably provides communities like Minto a measure of food security that they did not enjoy prior to the 1970s. Challenges for the modern subsistence hunter are different from those found even twenty or so years ago (Nuttall 2001); the most effective subsistence hunters today require boats, motors, and at times all-terrain or off-road vehicles, with costs measured in terms of high, purchase, maintenance and fuel prices. Hunters also need dependable access to country where traditional foods can be harvested in sufficient quantity to be consumed and shared among family and friends. Where economic and political conditions regulate how people hunt, where they go and how they get there, harvest success may be reduced and reliance on commercial food increased; so even with the continued preference for wild over market food reliance on industrial food in the rural diet is expanding. But these cheap foods (cheap not only in cost but also in nutritional value and cultural relevance) have also served to minimize the direct impacts of the increasing alienation between local foodways and state and federal resource management agencies mentioned earlier. Or to 96 put it another way, cheap food security has in fact subsidized this “coming out of the foodshed” process. 
3.5.1 Proximity & Self-reliance 
      As mentioned before, the foodshed is not just a geographic metaphor for studying food systems, but it also represents an ideal: a geographically, economically and morally “proximate” food system. Proximity is not just a simple matter of geographic locality or isolation, but of proximate control over matters of individual and community livelihood and well-being. To put it another way, proximity of control fosters self-reliance over self-sufficiency; “self-reliance implies the reduction of dependence on other places, but does not deny the desirability or necessity of external trade relationships” (Kloppenburg and others 1996:38). This self-reliance is also closely linked with social and ecological sustainability, in that a community that relies on its lands, its neighbors (and its neighbors’ lands), must therefore be concerned with matters of pollution, conservation and social welfare. Self-reliance is also a commonly used phrase and highly-valued notion among Athabascan communities and their definition is congruent with that presented in the foodshed paper. “Living well and responsibly with each other on the land” (p34) is considered as an accurate characterization of even the very recent past, that they simultaneously strive for and perceive as slipping away. 
      In communities like Minto, self-reliance is being grudgingly traded for reliance on external institutions, i.e. the job market and government welfare programs, and in particular by participation in the global cheap-food system, which creates both economic 97 and social distancing between the procurers and consumers of food and allows a further loss of control over food cost, supply, quality and suitability (Kloppenburg and others 1996; Pollan 2006; Sundkvist and others 2005). Consumers of this global system are also made less self-reliant in epistemological terms, in how they are “thought for” in respect to food choice, food quality nutrition and safety. Where the people of Minto’s traditional food choices and preferences were once driven by an understanding of food value that had developed over generations (Troger 2002), they now have to rely on FDA and/or USDA mandated labeling practices and New York Times best-selling diet books that present monolithic views of health that are neither sympathetic or reflective of the needs of locally adapted peoples (Nabhan 2004). This epistemological dimension is directly relevant to subsistence harvest practices too; hunters continue to rely on local knowledge, but fish and wildlife harvests are so heavily regulated and managed by outside agencies that subsistence hunting is forced into a secular rather than an integrated cultural framework. Where fish and wildlife populations were once managed through local knowledge, experience, and daily experimentation and observation, management is now based, among other things, on predator–prey models, carrying capacity, and with a battery of tools that probably focus more on the wildlife side than on the human side of the human-wildlife interactions management equation. 
      Too, these state and federal regulatory frameworks for subsistence activities described earlier are considered locally to be aggravating rather than assuaging the afore-mentioned downscale effects of climate change. Alaska Natives continue to experience difficulty with accessing traditional harvest areas and with collecting enough traditional 98 food to satisfy cultural tradition, to contribute significantly to the diet, and to promote or even maintain individual and community health. Despite the perceived changes in moose migratory behavior and season length, for instance, appropriate compensatory changes have not been made to the regulated moose hunting seasons (though a formal venue does exist to petition for hunting rights in special circumstances when food is particularly short). In combination with the fact that current interpretations of the Alaska state constitution prohibit the assignment of a ‘rural’ preference for wildlife resources (over urban and tourist hunters), regulatory frameworks do little in practice toward representing the needs of communities like Minto. The Minto Flats wildlife area is one of the most popular hunting spots in the state, and not just for local wildlife users but for sport hunters from around the state and nation. When moose ‘tags’ are distributed in Minto by the Alaska Department of Fish and Game (ADF&G), non-native hunters flock to the little community in their RVs to wait in line for the limited number of these permits. This “carnival,” as one resident described it, puts significant strain on Minto, in particular by creating direct competition for resources with a group of people who do not rely on said resources for their livelihoods. There are, in addition, important secondary impacts as well; the traffic puts extra strain on the one, mostly-dirt road into town, and non-resident hunters regularly bring alcohol into the community despite the fact that Minto is dry. Such behavior is indicative of the same overall lack of respect for community needs and the local environment that has led community members to post a sign (Figure 5) to visitors asking that they not waste the fish they catch. 99 3.5.2 Diversity & Flexibility 
      Despite the fact that the harvest of country foods continues to represent the largest component of Minto’s foodshed, flexibility and diversity in the use of fish and wildlife resources, are on the decline. In Alaska, this change is relatively recent, and linked to both contemporary environmental changes as well as the unresponsive legislative rigidity of the contemporary resource management regimes as mentioned above. This is especially troublesome because the freedom of flexibility and variety, often in the form of economic and dietary diversification, are key to maintaining local self-reliance in how they historically have provided resilience and adaptive capacity to these communities. Indeed, diversity and flexibility are in fact far more accurate characterizations of traditional Interior Athabascan life strategies than is captured by the “traditional and customary” subsistence paradigm (Gerlach and others in press; see also chapter 1 in this volume). Consider the afore-mentioned transition from whitefish to salmon that occurred amongst the lower Tanana Athabascans at the turn of the 20th century. Athabascans of the Minto Flats region experimented with new fishing technology, particularly the fishweel, and harvesting lands further down the Tanana river. The first fishwheel built by this group in 1903 proved such a great success that in very short order the spring and summer activities and movement/settlement patterns of these people changed significantly. The efficiency and increased sedentism that the wheels supported was timely, considering emerging challenges to mobility on the landscape caused by the gold rush economy and continued immigration of Russian and Canadian settlers (Slaby 1981). Within the modern legislative context however, the freedom to change and innovate that allowed this group 100to access new harvest lands and target a new species of fish, which many argue is required again if communities like Minto are to respond successfully to the down-scale impacts of global climate change (Anderson 1998; Folke and others 2003; Gerlach and others in press; Irvine and Kaplan 2001), is directly at odds with the static legislative regimes that give protection to only those activities recorded as “customary and traditional”. 
3.6 IMPACTS ON PHYSICAL, PSYCHOLOGICAL AND CULTURAL WELL BEING 
      Given that traditional foods, culture and health are so deeply intertwined, through history, ceremony, self-expression, tastes, taboos, etc., it is reasonable to expect that this “coming out of the foodshed” process will inflict upon people and their communities a significant amount of stress, both physical and psychological, as they struggle to reconcile these changes with their own notions of tradition and cultural identity. The many social institutions (e.g. tradition, kinship, and even a sense of belonging), that the ideal foodshed espouses and that contribute to the balance of individual and community well being, become increasingly vulnerable; gradually structures such as gender roles and other long-standing relationships of power and reciprocity can be destabilized by the new economic arrangements that emerge (Blue Spruce 1962; Douglas 1979:43; Graves 2003; Kloppenburg and others 1996; Krupa 1999). Too, the quality of these imported foods and the quality of information about their nutrition and safety upon which these communities must now rely is often unreliable at best. Evidence of this include current epidemic 101 trajectories of diabetes, heart and respiratory disease, language loss, pollution and the misuse of natural resources, malnutrition, alcoholism, poverty and crime, and are all too familiar to both the members of and scholars of communities like Minto (e.g. Caulfield 2002; Duhaime 2002; Fleener and Thomas 2003; Gerlach and others in press; Graves 2004; Krupa 1999; Kuhnlein and others 2004). 
3.6.1 Nutrition & Physical Well Being 
The people of Minto clearly make a distinction made between subsistence-centered and non-subsistence-centered economic activities, and the proportional contributions of country foods to store-bought foods to the total diet are something of which they remain cognizant. Nevertheless, both the overall proportion and the diversity of country foods that contribute to diet in Minto as well as many other rural Alaskan communities continue to follow downward trends as the prevalence of eating from the store increases (Reed 1995). Researchers find that such a reduction in dietarydiversity commonly occurs when hunting/gathering societies come in long-term contact with agricultural or industrialized populations, primarily by way of their effect upon the freedom and flexibility of local mobility patterns (Bryant and others 1985; Doughty 1979). This is a trend that holds up throughout much of Alaska, and poses real threats to physical well-being as the diversity of a country diet is generally considered to be far more healthful than the industrially-processed store bought alternatives (Grivetti and Ogle 2000; Kuhnlein and others 2002; Thorburn and others 1987). This “nutrition transition” coincides with near-epidemic rises in the prevalence of obesity, diabetes and 102 heart disease among Native Alaskan populations: diabetes, which was not thought to be present in Arctic and Subarctic populations in the past, now occurs for 18 out of 1,000 Alaska Natives, nearing levels of other developed countries, and cancer, heart disease, stroke, and cardiovascular disease have all similarly increased at these rates (ADHS 2000; ATSDR 2001; Broussard and others 1991; Egeland and others 1998; Kuhnlein and others 2004; Nobmann and others 1992). 
      As an example, it is known through a variety of ethnographic and anecdotal sources that native plants once played a significant role in both nutrition, medicine and as famine foods for Interior Alaskan communities, whereas today they are all-but absent from contemporary documentation of Native diets (except the berries, wild rhubarb, and rosehips) (Andre and Fehr 2002; Andrews 1988; Heller and Scott 1967; Holloway and Alexander 1990; Kari 1985; Nobmann and others 1992). One informant in Minto suggested that the decline in use is because tastes are different between the older and younger generations; that many of the children just don’t like the taste of the plants that the elders still chew on from time to time. While this may be in part a result of the deterioration of traditional youth-elder pedagogical relationships, it is also well established that the flavors of store-bought, highly processed foods, especially those that contain monosodium-glutamate (MSG) or fructose derivatives (both of which have also been identified as contributing to the etiology of the ailments listed above) are much more intense than in natural foods, particularly in respect to sweetness. This has the effect of tricking our biophysical impulse to regard tasty food as healthful and nutritious (Bellisle 1998; 1999; Bray and others 2004; Hanover and White 1993). This allows them 103 to essentially out-compete, so to speak, both biophysically and psychologically, the natural, and often bitter flavors of local foods, making them seem to taste and smell “bad” or undesirable (Grivetti and Ogle 2000; Zandstra and Graaf 1998). Given that the senses of taste and smell wane with age, coupled with clinical studies that show these flavor enhancers are effective supplements for the elderly, further research is warranted into to the extent to which these additives are contributing to health epidemics as well as to the fragmentation of local foodways discussed here (Marie-Francoise and others 2001). 
3.6.2 Cultural & Psychological Well Being 
Local foodways have been and continue to be the context for community social and cultural relations in Athabascan communities, so coming out of the foodshed has consequences to individual and community well being that reach beyond these physical syndromes and into the contemporary psychological and cultural challenges communities like Minto face. The harvest and consumption of wild foods contributes, for instance, to a sense of place and belonging to the country and community by connecting people in a physical and cultural way to the land through the use of travel routes, plant, animal, bird and fish harvest sites and areas, camps of modern and historical significance, etc. The land is the context within which world-view and identity develop when experienced, and a laboratory for exploration, experimentation and the development of local knowledge (Gragson and Blount 1999; Nabhan and Trimble 1994). Although the entire population of Minto participates to some extend in country food harvest activities, the actual proportion of time spent varies greatly among the generations. The older segment of the community, 104 mature adults and elders, have the means (e.g. supplies, cash) but not always the time (because of conflict with employment) or legal authority (because of state and federal subsistence regulations); still, this group participates more than any other. Young people in general no longer engage with the country in the same way that Alaska Native Elders do (Louv 2006; Nabhan and Trimble 1994), sometimes because of opportunity or financial constraints, a lack of interest, lack of significant contact with Elders, a sedentary lifestyle, all to some extent driven or subsidized by the increased participation in a global food system. Informants often spoke to me regretfully of the ‘village kids:’ children who spend most/all of their time in the village itself and eating from the store, no time spent with their adults and/or elders participating and learning customary survival skills, stories, songs and other traditions. 
      New research is illuminating direct cause and effect relationships between these cultural aspects of fragmentation and contemporary psychological and social syndromes. Like many Native communities in Alaska, Minto is a “dry” village but alcohol abuse persists there as a problem. In fact the camp at Old Minto is now used as a cultural rehabilitation camp for alcoholism by Natives from all over the state. In a recent pan-Alaskan study by Graves (2003), in which data from the incomplete “Social Transitions in the North” (McNabb, Richards, et. al 1993-1995) project were combined with additional new follow-up survey materials, disruptions to the participation in traditional country food harvest activities were linked directly to contemporary issues of psychological health (Graves 2003; 2004). The ongoing “social and environmental transitions” associated with the coming out of the foodshed process have been found to 105 be particularly devastating for Native men. Losing control over the rights and responsibilities associated with hunting, fishing and gathering has proven to destabilize gender roles as well as men’s perception of their overall position within their families and community. These manifest as alienation, depression, and alcoholism, all widely recognized as significant contemporary challenges Alaska Natives and indeed Native Americans and other indigenous populations worldwide, with outcomes which threaten not only psychological and cultural well-being, but physical health as well. 
3.7 DISCUSSION 
The dominant dynamics of the global food system actively erode both moral economy and community. We agree with those who believe that this destructiveness is an inherent property of that system, and that what is needed is fundamental transformation rather than simple reform. (Kloppenburg and others 1996:37) 
      Minto remains an excellent example of the “commensal” community, where people live and eat together in a manner that is respectful of each other, of the land and the environment, and built upon a moral economy where food is considered more than a commodity to be exchanged through a set of impersonal market relationships, and held as central to community well being. In this and in other respects, the people of Minto are still living mostly within their own foodshed. The details of Reed’s inventory of food in the community remain accurate, but the dramatic differences between her optimistic view of the community’s trajectory of food-system change and the reality I experienced 10 106 years later, are sobering. What I’ve presented here is my best attempt to capture the synergistic and cross-scale relationships and circumstances that are contributing to the fragmentation of Minto’s local foodways. Indeed there can be no doubt that: 
1. Access to country foods is being confounded by ecological, political and economic forces that are largely outside of the community purview 
2. Rather than meeting these challenges head-on, country foods are being replaced by store-bought foods 
3. Despite this additional measure of food security, nutritional needs are not being met by this contemporary, mixed diet 
4. The transmission of local life ways through traditional lines of (elder-youth) pedagogy have fractured 
5. A myriad of physical, psychological and cultural stresses are resulting from this process, including depression, alcoholism, obesity, language loss, and so on. he process has created for itself a sort of positive feedback loop, whereby the progressive loss of knowledge of the landscape in “village kids,” and increased unpredicability of weather and animal migrations, allow the importance of country foods to wane and cheap foods to increase. This in turn makes it less necessary in the short-term to develop new adaptive strategies to climate change or to fight for changed legislation in respect to subsistence regulation. Wage-earning becomes a more important enterprise so that the increased need of cheap foods can met, which in turn takes more 107 away from the survival of local knowledge via reduced time spent on the land with elders and with youth. 
Fortunately, Minto is not merely a passive recipient of these changes, and they are very much in a position to reverse this trajectory of change without the need for the magnitude of reform spoken of in the quote above; values such as the importance of self-reliance, and the ability to adapt, innovate, and “think like a mountain” that Aldo Leopold suggests (as quoted in Kloppenburg et al.), are already well embedded within the Athabascan worldview (Krupa 1999). Nevertheless given the seemingly intractable nature of the exogenous forces driving these changes in Minto, measures of “self-protection, secession and succession” (Kloppenburg and others 1996:37) continue to represent the best courses for local action. Graves’ work, along with the successes of the cultural rehabilitation camp at Old Minto, exemplifies how a strong reliance upon cultural values such as “subsistence, responsibility to the tribe, respect for the land, and honoring elders” can be mechanisms of self-protection (Graves 2004:94). People in Minto also speak regularly at public gatherings and potlatches of the importance of regaining their self-reliance, and of making choices that take small steps toward reinvigorating local foodways, the same sort of choices of secession and succession that the foodshed paper prescribes. This small-scale activism is also bolstered by their strong religious convictions, which considers their Athabascan heritage as a gift or blessing from God; therefore protecting these traditions by enacting them and passing them on to the young are both considered to be in themselves acts of worship. Even the community garden initiative that was my original reason for visiting Minto is an example of one 108 innovative attempt to restore of a customary practice that dates at least to the 1930s (Olson 1981; see also chapter 1)), and facilitate the slow withdrawal from their cheap-food addiction. 
3.8 CONCLUSION 
The applicability to the case of Minto of this ‘reverse’ foodshed metaphor goes not only towards a better understanding of the case itself, but also towards certifying the legitimacy of the foodshed as a conceptual tool and as a design for action. Minto in many ways continues to display the characteristics and benefits of a healthful foodshed; but the contemporary syndromes that are emerging with its fragmentation are likely to find correlations in case-studies elsewhere. Finally, it also suggests a very positive outlook for the outcomes communities might enjoy as they move towards establishing foodsheds of their own. In Minto’s past and present are tangible, concrete examples of how communities that eat together and strive together towards greater self-reliance can indeed create a moral economy that is antithetical to a dominant system which has alienated people from each other and from the land. This process is not, however, be it for Minto or for any other community, simply one of turning back the clock. Restoration of those things which used to work in the past must be steered with the necessary innovation and experimentation in mind to discover those new approaches that can meet the new challenges of the present and the unknown challenges of the future.
