I have asked thousands of business people to smile at someone
every hour of the day for a week and then come to class and talk
about the results. How did it work? Let's see ... Here is a letter from
William B. Steinhardt, a New York stockbroker. His case isn't isolated.
In fact, it is typical of hundreds of cases.
"1 have been married for over eighteen years," wrote Mr. Steinhardt,
"and in all that time I seldom smiled at my wife or spoke two dozen
words to her from the time I got up until I was ready to leave for
business. I was one of the worst grouches who ever walked down
Broadway.
"When you asked me to make a talk about my experience with
smiles, I thought I would try it for a week. So the next morning,
while combing my hair, I looked at my glum mug in the mirror and
said to myself, 'Bill, you are going to wipe the scowl off that sour
puss of yours today. You are going to smile. And you are going to
begin right now.' As I sat down to breakfast, I greeted my wife with
a 'Good morning, my dear,' and smiled as I said it.
"You warned me that she might be surprised. Well, you
underestimated her reaction. She was bewildered. She was shocked.
I told her that in the future she could expect this as a regular
occurrence, and I kept it up every morning.
"This changed attitude of mine brought more happiness into our
home in the two months since I started than there was during the
last year.
"As I leave for my office, I greet the elevator operator in the
apartment house with a 'Good morning' and a smile, I greet the
doorman with a smile. I smile at the cashier in the subway booth
when I ask for change. As I stand on the floor of the Stock
Exchange, I smile at people who until recently never saw me smile.
"I soon found that everybody was smiling back at me, I treat those
who come to me with complaints or grievances in a cheerful manner,
I smile as I listen to them and I find that adjustments are
accomplished much easier. I find that smiles are bringing me dollars,
many dollars every day.
"I share my office with another broker. One of his clerks is a likable
young chap, and I was so elated about the results I was getting that
I told him recently about my new philosophy of human relations. He
then confessed that when I first came to share my office with his
firm he thought me a terrible grouch - and only recently changed his
mind. He said I was really human when I smiled.
"I have also eliminated criticism from my system. I give appreciation
and praise now instead of condemnation. I have stopped talking
about what I want. I am now trying to see the other person's
viewpoint. And these things have literally revolutionized my life. I am
a totally different man, a happier man, a richer man, richer in
friendships and happiness - the only things that matter much after
all."
You don't feel like smiling? Then what? Two things. First, force
yourself to smile. If you are alone, force yourself to whistle or hum a
tune or sing. Act as if you were already happy, and that will tend to
make you happy. Here is the way the psychologist and philosopher
William James put it:
"Action seems to follow feeling, but really action and feeling go
together; and by regulating the action, which is under the more
direct control of the will, we can indirectly regulate the feeling, which
is not.
"Thus the sovereign voluntary path to cheerfulness, if our
cheerfulness be lost, is to sit up cheerfully and to act and speak as if
cheerfulness were already there. ..."
Every body in the world is seeking happiness - and there is one sure
way to find it. That is by controlling your thoughts. Happiness
doesn't depend on outward conditions. It depends on inner
conditions.
It isn't what you have or who you are or where you are or what you
are doing that makes you happy or unhappy. It is what you think
about it. For example, two people may be in the same place, doing
the same thing; both may have about an equal amount of money
and prestige - and yet one may be miserable and the other happy.
Why? Because of a different mental attitude. I have seen just as
many happy faces among the poor peasants toiling with their
primitive tools in the devastating heat of the tropics as I have seen in
air-conditioned offices in New York, Chicago or Los Angeles.
"There is nothing either good or bad," said Shakespeare, "but
thinking makes it so."
Abe Lincoln once remarked that "most folks are about as happy as
they make up their minds to be." He was right. I saw a vivid
illustration of that truth as I was walking up the stairs of the Long
Island Railroad station in New York. Directly in front of me thirty or
forty crippled boys on canes and crutches were struggling up the
stairs. One boy had to be carried up. I was astonished at their
laughter and gaiety. I spoke about it to one of.the men in charge of
the boys. "Oh, yes," he said, "when a boy realizes that he is going to
be a cripple for life, he is shocked at first; but after he gets over the
shock, he usually resigns himself to his fate and then becomes as
happy as normal boys."
I felt like taking my hat off to those boys. They taught me a lesson I
hope I shall never forget.
Working all by oneself in a closed-off room in an office not only is
lonely, but it denies one the opportunity of making friends with other
employees in the company. Se?ora Maria Gonzalez of Guadalajara,
Mexico, had such a job. She envied the shared comradeship of other
people in the company as she heard their chatter and laughter. As
she passed them in the hall during the first weeks of her
employment, she shyly looked the other way.
After a few weeks, she said to herself, "Maria, you can't expect those
women to come to you. You have to go out and meet them. " The
next time she walked to the water cooler, she put on her brightest
smile and said, "Hi, how are you today" to each of the people she
met. The effect was immediate. Smiles and hellos were returned, the
hallway seemed brighter, the job friendlier.
Acquaintanceships developed and some ripened into friendships. Her
job and her life became more pleasant and interesting.
Peruse this bit of sage advice from the essayist and publisher Elbert
Hubbard - but remember, perusing it won't do you any good unless
you apply it:
Whenever you go out-of-doors, draw the chin in, carry the crown of
the head high, and fill the lungs to the utmost; drink in the sunshine;
greet your friends with a smile, and put soul into every handclasp.
Do not fear being misunderstood and do not waste a minute thinking
about your enemies. Try to fix firmly in your mind what you would
like to do; and then, without veering off direction, you will move
straight to the goal. Keep your mind on the great and splendid things
you would like to do, and then, as the days go gliding away, you will
find yourself unconsciously seizing upon the opportunities that are
required for the fulfillment of your desire, just as the coral insect
takes from the running tide the element it needs. Picture in your
mind the able, earnest, useful person you desire to be, and the
thought you hold is hourly transforming you into that particular
individual.. . . Thought is supreme. Preserve a right mental attitude -
the attitude of courage, frankness, and good cheer. To think rightly
is to create. All things come through desire and every sincere prayer
is answered. We become like that on which our hearts are fixed.
Carry your chin in and the crown of your head high. We are gods in
the chrysalis.
The ancient Chinese were a wise lot - wise in the ways of the world;
and they had a proverb that you and I ought to cut out and paste
inside our hats. It goes like this: "A man without a smiling face must
not open a shop."
Your smile is a messenger of your good will. Your smile brightens the
lives of all who see it. To someone who has seen a dozen people
frown, scowl or turn their faces away, your smile is like the sun
breaking through the clouds. Especially when that someone is under
pressure from his bosses, his customers, his teachers or parents or
children, a smile can help him realize that all is not hopeless - that
there is joy in the world.
Some years ago, a department store in New York City, in recognition
of the pressures its sales clerks were under during the Christmas
rush, presented the readers of its advertisements with the following
homely philosophy:
The Value Of A Smile At Christmas
It costs nothing, but creates much. It enriches those who receive,
without impoverishing those who give. It happens in a flash and the
memory of it sometimes lasts forever, None are so rich they can get
along without it, and none so poor but are richer for its benefits. It
creates happiness in the home, fosters good will in a business, and is
the countersign of friends. It is rest to the weary, daylight to the
discouraged, sunshine to the sad, and Nature's best antidote fee
trouble. Yet it cannot be bought, begged, borrowed, or stolen, for it
is something that is no earthly good to anybody till it is given away.
And if in the last-minute rush of Christmas buying some of our
salespeople should be too tired to give you a smile, may we ask you
to leave one of yours? For nobody needs a smile so much as those
who have none left to give!
• Principle 2 - Smile.
~~~~~~~
3 - If You Don't Do This, You Are Headed For Trouble
Back in 1898, a tragic thing happened in Rockland County, New
York. A child had died, and on this particular day the neighbors were
preparing to go to the funeral.
Jim Farley went out to the barn to hitch up his horse. The ground
was covered with snow, the air was cold and snappy; the horse
hadn't been exercised for days; and as he was led out to the
watering trough, he wheeled playfully, kicked both his heels high in
the air, and killed Jim Farley. So the little village of Stony Point had
two funerals that week instead of one.
Jim Farley left behind him a widow and three boys, and a few
hundred dollars in insurance.
His oldest boy, Jim, was ten, and he went to work in a brickyard,
wheeling sand and pouring it into the molds and turning the brick on
edge to be dried by the sun. This boy Jim never had a chance to get
much education. But with his natural geniality, he had a flair for
making people like him, so he went into politics, and as the years
went by, he developed an uncanny ability for remembering people's
names.
He never saw the inside of a high school; but before he was forty-six
years of age, four colleges had honored him with degrees and he
had become chairman of the Democratic National Committee and
Postmaster General of the United States.
I once interviewed Jim Farley and asked him the secret of his
success. He said, "Hard work," and I said, "Don't be funny."
He then asked me what I thought was the reason for his success. I
replied: "I understand you can call ten thousand people by their first
names."
"No. You are wrong, " he said. "I can call fifty thousand people by
their first names."
Make no mistake about it. That ability helped Mr. Farley put Franklin
D. Roosevelt in the White House when he managed Roosevelt's
campaign in 1932.
During the years that Jim Farley traveled as a salesman for a gypsum
concern, and during the years that he held office as town clerk in
Stony Point, he built up a system for remembering names.
In the beginning, it was a very simple one. Whenever he met a new
acquaintance, he found out his or her complete name and some
facts about his or her family, business and political opinions. He fixed
all these facts well in mind as part of the picture, and the next time
he met that person, even if it was a year later, he was able to shake
hands, inquire after the family, and ask about the hollyhocks in the
backyard. No wonder he developed a following!
For months before Roosevelt's campaign for President began, Jim
Farley wrote hundreds of letters a day to people all over the western
and northwestern states. Then he hopped onto a train and in
nineteen days covered twenty states and twelve thousand miles,
traveling by buggy, train, automobile and boat. He would drop into
town, meet his people at lunch or breakfast, tea or dinner, and give
them a "heart-to-heart talk." Then he'd dash off again on another leg
of his journey.
As soon as he arrived back East, he wrote to one person in each
town he had visited, asking for a list of all the guests to whom he
had talked. The final list contained thousands and thousands of
names; yet each person on that list was paid the subtle flattery of
getting a personal letter from James Farley. These letters began
"Dear Bill" or "Dear Jane," and they were always signed "Jim."
Jim Farley discovered early in life that the average person is more
interested in his or her own name than in all the other names on
earth put together. Remember that name and call it easily, and you
have paid a subtle and very effective compliment. But forget it or
misspell it - and you have placed yourself at a sharp disadvantage.
For example, I once organized a public-speaking course in Paris and
sent form letters to all the American residents in the city. French
typists with apparently little knowledge of English filled in the names
and naturally they made blunders. One man, the manager of a large
American bank in Paris, wrote me a scathing rebuke because his
name had been misspelled.
Sometimes it is difficult to remember a name, particularly if it is hard
to pronounce. Rather than even try to learn it, many people ignore it
or call the person by an easy nickname. Sid Levy called on a
customer for some time whose name was Nicodemus Papadoulos.
Most people just called him "Nick." Levy told us: "I made a special
effort to say his name over several times to myself before I made my
call. When I greeted him by his full name: 'Good afternoon, Mr.
Nicodemus Papadoulos,' he was shocked. For what seemed like
several minutes there was no reply from him at all. Finally, he said
with tears rolling down his cheeks, 'Mr. Levy, in all the fifteen years I
have been in this country, nobody has ever made the effort to call
me by my right name.' "
What was the reason for Andrew Carnegie's success?
He was called the Steel King; yet he himself knew little about the
manufacture of steel. He had hundreds of people working for him
who knew far more about steel than he did.
But he knew how to handle people, and that is what made him rich.
Early in life, he showed a flair for organization, a genius for
leadership. By the time he was ten, he too had discovered the
astounding importance people place on their own name. And he
used that discovery to win cooperation. To illustrate: When he was a
boy back in Scotland, he got hold of a rabbit, a mother rabbit.
Presto! He soon had a whole nest of little rabbits - and nothing to
feed them. But he had a brilliant idea. He told the boys and girls in
the neighborhood that if they would go out and pull enough clover
and dandelions to feed the rabbits, he would name the bunnies in
their honor.
The plan worked like magic, and Carnegie never forgot it.
Years later, he made millions by using the same psychology in
business. For example, he wanted to sell steel rails to the
Pennsylvania Railroad. J. Edgar Thomson was the president of the
Pennsylvania Railroad then. So Andrew Carnegie built a huge steel
mill in Pittsburgh and called it the "Edgar Thomson Steel Works."
Here is a riddle. See if you can guess it. When the Pennsylvania
Railroad needed steel rails, where do you suppose J. Edgar Thomson
bought them?. . , From Sears, Roebuck? No. No. You're wrong.
Guess again. When Carnegie and George Pullman were battling each
other for supremacy in the railroad sleeping-car business, the Steel
King again remembered the lesson of the rabbits.
The Central Transportation Company, which Andrew Carnegie
controlled, was fighting with the company that Pullman owned. Both
were struggling to get the sleeping-car business of the Union Pacific
Railroad, bucking each other, slashing prices, and destroving all
chance of profit. Both Carnegie and Pullman had gone to New York
to see the board of directors of the Union Pacific. Meeting one
evening in the St. Nicholas Hotel, Carnegie said: "Good evening, Mr.
Pullman, aren't we making a couple of fools of ourselves?"
"What do you mean.?" Pullman demanded.
Then Carnegie expressed what he had on his mind - a merger of
their two interests. He pictured in glowing terms the mutual
advantages of working with, instead of against, each other. Pullman
listened attentively, but he was not wholly convinced. Finally he
asked, "What would you call the new company?" and Carnegie
replied promptly: "Why, the Pullman Palace Car Company, of
course."
Pullman's face brightened. "Come into my room," he said. "Let's talk
it over." That talk made industrial history.
This policy of remembering and honoring the names of his friends
and business associates was one of the secrets of Andrew Carnegie's
leadership. He was proud of the fact that he could call many of his
factory workers by their first names, and he boasted that while he
was personally in charge, no strike ever disturbed his flaming steel
mills.
Benton Love, chairman of Texas Commerce Banc-shares, believes
that the bigger a corporation gets, the colder it becomes. " One way
to warm it up," he said, "is to remember people's names. The
executive who tells me he can't remember names is at the same time
telling me he can't remember a significant part of his business and is
operating on quicksand."
Karen Kirsech of Rancho Palos Verdes, California, a flight attendant
for TWA, made it a practice to learn the names of as many
passengers in her cabin as possible and use the name when serving
them. This resulted in many compliments on her service expressed
both to her directly and to the airline. One passenger wrote: "I
haven't flown TWA for some time, but I'm going to start flying
nothing but TWA from now on. You make me feel that your airline
has become a very personalized airline and that is important to me."
People are so proud of their names that they strive to perpetuate
them at any cost. Even blustering, hard-boiled old P. T. Barnum, the
greatest showman of his time, disappointed because he had no sons
to carry on his name, offered his grandson, C. H. Seeley, $25,000
dollars if he would call himself "Barnum" Seeley.
For many centuries, nobles and magnates supported artists,
musicians and authors so that their creative works would be
dedicated to them.
Libraries and museums owe their richest collections to people who
cannot bear to think that their names might perish from the memory
of the race. The New York Public Library has its Astor and Lenox
collections. The Metropolitan Museum perpetuates the names of
Benjamin Altman and J. P. Morgan. And nearly every church is
beautified by stained-glass windows commemorating the names of
their donors. Many of the buildings on the campus of most
universities bear the names of donors who contributed large sums of
money for this honor.
Most people don't remember names, for the simple reason that they
don't take the time and energy necessary to concentrate and repeat
and fix names indelibly in their minds. They make excuses for
themselves; they are too busy.
But they were probably no busier than Franklin D. Roosevelt, and he
took time to remember and recall even the names of mechanics with
whom he came into contact.
To illustrate: The Chrysler organization built a special car for Mr.
Roosevelt, who could not use a standard car because his legs were
paralyzed. W. F. Chamberlain and a mechanic delivered it to the
White House. I have in front of me a letter from Mr. Chamberlain
relating his experiences. "I taught President Roosevelt how to handle
a car with a lot of unusual gadgets, but he taught me a lot about the
fine art of handling people.
"When I called at the White House," Mr. Chamberlain writes, "the
President was extremely pleasant and cheerful. He called me by
name, made me feel very comfortable, and particularly impressed
me with the fact that he was vitally interested in things I had to
show him and tell him. The car was so designed that it could be
operated entirely by hand. A crowd gathered around to look at the
car; and he remarked: 'I think it is marvelous. All you have to do is
to touch a button and it moves away and you can drive it without
effort. I think it is grand - I don't know what makes it go. I'd love to
have the time to tear it down and see how it works.'
"When Roosevelt's friends and associates admired the machine, he
said in their presence: 'Mr. Chamberlain, I certainly appreciate all the
time and effort you have spent in developing this car. It is a mighty
fine job.' He admired the radiator, the special rear-vision mirror and
clock, the special spotlight, the kind of upholstery, the sitting position
of the driver's seat, the special suitcases in the trunk with his
monogram on each suitcase. In other words, he took notice of every
detail to which he knew I had given considerable thought. He made
a point of bringing these various pieces of equipment to the attention
of Mrs. Roosevelt, Miss Perkins, the Secretary of Labor, and his
secretary. He even brought the old White House porter into the
picture by saying, 'George, you want to take particularly good care of
the suitcases.'
"When the driving lesson was finished, the President turned to me
and said: 'Well, Mr. Chamberlain, I have been keeping the Federal
Reserve Board waiting thirty minutes. I guess I had better get back
to work.'
"I took a mechanic with me to the White House. He was introduced
to Roosevelt when he arrived. He didn't talk to the President, and
Roosevelt heard his name only once. He was a shy chap, and he
kept in the background. But before leaving us, the President looked
for the mechanic, shook his hand, called him by name, and thanked
him for coming to Washington. And there was nothing perfunctory
about his thanks. He meant what he said. I could feel that.
"A few days after returning to New York, I got an autographed
photograph of President Roosevelt and a little note of thanks again
expressing his appreciation for my assistance. How he found time to
do it is a mystery to me ."
Franklin D. Roosevelt knew that one of the simplest, most obvious
and most important ways of gaining good will was by remembering
names and making people feel important - yet how many of us do it?
Half the time we are introduced to a stranger, we chat a few minutes
and can't even remember his or her name by the time we say
goodbye.
One of the first lessons a politician learns is this: "To recall a voter's
name is statesmanship. To forget it is oblivion."
And the ability to remember names is almost as important in
business and social contacts as it is in politics.
Napoleon the Third, Emperor of France and nephew of the great
Napoleon, boasted that in spite of all his royal duties he could
remember the name of every person he met.
His technique? Simple. If he didn't hear the name distinctly, he said,
"So sorry. I didn't get the name clearly." Then, if it was an unusual
name, he would say, "How is it spelled?"
During the conversation, he took the trouble to repeat the name
several times, and tried to associate it in his mind with the person's
features, expression and general appearance.
If the person was someone of importance, Napoleon went to even
further pains. As soon as His Royal Highness was alone, he wrote the
name down on a piece of paper, looked at it, concentrated on it,
fixed it securely in his mind, and then tore up the paper. In this way,
he gained an eye impression of the name as well as an ear
impression.
All this takes time, but "Good manners," said Emerson, "are made up
of petty sacrifices."
The importance of remembering and using names is not just the
prerogative of kings and corporate executives. It works for all of us.
Ken Nottingham, an employee of General Motors in Indiana, usually
had lunch at the company cafeteria. He noticed that the woman who
worked behind the counter always had a scowl on her face. "She had
been making sandwiches for about two hours and I was just another
sandwich to her. I told her what I wanted. She weighed out the ham
on a little scale, then she gave me one leaf of lettuce, a few potato
chips and handed them to me.
"The next day I went through the same line. Same woman, same
scowl. The only difference was I noticed her name tag. I smiled and
said, 'Hello, Eunice,' and then told her what I wanted. Well, she
forgot the scale, piled on the ham, gave me three leaves of lettuce
and heaped on the potato chips until they fell off the plate."
We should be aware of the magic contained in a name and realize
that this single item is wholly and completely owned by the person
with whom we are dealing and nobody else. The name sets the
individual apart; it makes him or her unique among all others. The
information we are imparting or the request we are making takes on
a special importance when we approach the situation with the name
of the individual. From the waitress to the senior executive, the
name will work magic as we deal with others.
• Principle 3 - Remember that a person's name is to that person the
sweetest and most important sound in any language.
~~~~~~~
4 - An Easy Way To Become A Good Conversationalist
Some time ago, I attended a bridge party. I don't play bridge - and
there was a woman there who didn't play bridge either. She had
discovered that I had once been Lowell Thomas' manager before he
went on the radio and that I had traveled in Europe a great deal
while helping him prepare the illustrated travel talks he was then
delivering. So she said: "Oh, Mr. Carnegie, I do want you to tell me
about all the wonderful places you have visited and the sights you
have seen."
As we sat down on the sofa, she remarked that she and her husband
had recently returned from a trip to Africa. "Africa!" I exclaimed.
"How interesting! I've always wanted to see Africa, but I never got
there except for a twenty-four-hour stay once in Algiers. Tell me, did
you visit the big-game country? Yes? How fortunate. I envy you. Do
tell me about Africa."
That kept her talking for forty-five minutes. She never again asked
me where I had been or what I had seen. She didn't want to hear
me talk about my travels. All she wanted was an interested listener,
so she could expand her ego and tell about where she had been.
Was she unusual? No. Many people are like that.
For example, I met a distinguished botanist at a dinner party given
by a New York book publisher. I had never talked with a botanist
before, and I found him fascinating. I literally sat on the edge of my
chair and listened while he spoke of exotic plants and experiments in
developing new forms of plant life and indoor gardens (and even told
me astonishing facts about the humble potato). I had a small indoor
garden of my own - and he was good enough to tell me how to solve
some of my problems.
As I said, we were at a dinner party. There must have been a dozen
other guests, but I violated all the canons of courtesy, ignored
everyone else, and talked for hours to the botanist.
Midnight came, I said good night to everyone and departed. The
botanist then turned to our host and paid me several flattering
compliments. I was "most stimulating." I was this and I was that,
and he ended by saying I was a "most interesting conversationalist."
An interesting conversationalist? Why, I had said hardly anything at
all. I couldn't have said anything if I had wanted to without changing
the subject, for I didn't know any more about botany than I knew
about the anatomy of a penguin. But I had done this: I had listened
intently. I had listened because I was genuinely interested. And he
felt it. Naturally that pleased him. That kind of listening is one of the
highest compliments we can pay anyone. "Few human beings,"
wrote Jack Woodford in Strangers in Love, "few human beings are
proof against the implied flattery of rapt attention." I went even
further than giving him rapt attention. I was "hearty in my
approbation and lavish in my praise."
I told him that I had been immensely entertained and instructed -
and I had. I told him I wished I had his knoledge - and I did. I told
him that I should love to wander the fields with him - and I have. I
told him I must see him again - and I did.
And so I had him thinking of me as a good conversationalist when, in
reality, I had been merely a good listener and had encouraged him
to talk.
