3.10 REFERENCES 
ADHS. 2000. Healthy Alaskans 2010. Alaska Department of Health Services. 
AKDEC. 2006. Community Database Online. Juneau: Alaska Department of Commerce, Community and Economic Development. 
Anderson RC. 1998. Mid Course Correction: Toward a Sustainable Enterprise: The Interface Model. White River Junction: Chelsea Green Publishing Company. 207 p. 
Andre A, Fehr A. 2002. Gwich'in Ethnobotany: Plants Used by the Gwich'in for Food, Medicine, Shelter and Tools. . Inuvik, NWT: Gwich'in Social and Cultural Institute and Aurora Research, Inc. 68 p. 
Andrews EF. 1988. The Harvest of Fish and Wildlife for Subsistence Use by Residents of Minto, Ak. Juneau: Alaska Department of Fish and Game. 348 p. 
Andrews EF, Napoleon RK. 1985. Moose Hunting in the Minto Flats Management Area by Minto Permit Holders, 1984-85. Fairbanks: Alaska Department of Fish and Game. 23 p. 
ATSDR. 2001. Alaska Traditional Diet Project. [online] URL:. Bellisle F. 1998. Effects of Monosodium Glutamate on Human Food Palatability. . Annals of the New York Academy of Science 855:438-441. 
1999. Glutamate and the Umami Taste: Sensory, Metabolic, Nutritional and Behavioral Considerations: A Review of the Literature Published in the Last 10 Years. Neuroscience Biobehavioral Review 1999(23):423-438. 
Blue Spruce B. 1962. The Amerindian. The American Indian Review:2. 
Bray GA, Nielsen SJ, Popkin BM. 2004. Consumption of High-Fructose Corn Syrup in Beverages May Play a Role in the Epidemic of Obesity. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 79(4):537-543. 
Broussard BA, Johnson A, Jimes JH, Mary S, Fichtner R, Hauck F, Bachman-Carter K, Hayes J, Frohlich K, Gray N and others. 1991. Prevalence of Obesity in American Indians and Alaska Natives. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 53:1535S-1542S. 
Brown LK, Mussell K. 1985. Introduction. In: Brown LK, Mussell K, editors. Ethnic and Regional Foodways in the United States: The Performance of Group Identity. Knoxville: the University of Tennessee Press. 116 Bryant CA, Courtney A, Markesbery BA, DeWalt KM. 1985. The Cultural Feast: An Introduction to Food and Society. St. Paul: West Publishing Company. 
Case DS. 1984. Alaska Natives and American Laws. Fairbanks: University of Alaska Press. 
Caulfield R. 1983. Subsistence Land Use in Upper Yukon Porcupine Communities, Alaska. Dinjii Nats'aa Nan Kak Adagwaandaii. Report #16. Alaska Department of Fish and Game. 252 p. 
2002. Food Security in Arctic Alaska: A Preliminary Assessment. In: Duhaime G, editor. Sustainable Food Security in the Arctic. Alberta: CCI Press. 
Doughty J. 1979. Commentary: Dangers of Reducing the Range O Food Choice in Developing Countries. Ecology of Food and Nutrition 8:275-283. 
Douglas M. 1979. The World of Goods. New York: W. W. Norton & Company. 228 p. 
Duhaime G, editor. 2002. Sustainable Food Security in the Arctic. Alberta: CCI Press. 
Egeland GM, Feyk LA, Middaugh JP. 1998. Use of Traditional Foods in a Healthy Diet in Alaska: Risk Perspective. Juneau: Alaska Division of Public Health. 
Fleener C, Thomas B. 2003. Yukon Flats Salmon Traditional Knowledge. Fort Yukon: Council of Athabascan Tribal Governments, Natural Resources Department. Report nr CATGNR 03-03. 36 p. 
Folke C, Colding J, Berkes F. 2003. Building Resilience and Adaptive Capacity in Socio-Ecological Systems. In: Berkes F, Colding J, Folke C, editors. Navigating Socio-Ecological Systems. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. p 352-387. 
Gerlach SC, Turner AM, Henry L, Loring P, Fleener C. in press. Regional Foods, Food Systems, Security and Risk in Rural Alaska. In: Duffy LK, Erickson K, editors. Circumpolar Environmental Science: Current Issues in Resources, Health and Policy. Fairbanks: University of Alaska Press. 
Gragson TL, Blount BG, editors. 1999. Ethnoecology: Knowledge, Resources, and Rights. Athens: The University of Georgia Press. 
Graves K. 2003. Resilience and Adaptation among Alaska Native Men. Fairbanks: University of Alaska Anchorage. 
2004. Resilience and Adaptation among Alaska Native Men: Abstract. International Journal of Circumpolar Health 63(1):2004. 117 Grivetti LE, Ogle BM. 2000. The Value of Traditional Foods in Meeting Macro- and Micronutrient Needs: The Wild Plant Connection. Nutrition Research Reviews 13:1-16. 
Hanover LM, White JS. 1993. Manufacturing, Composition and Applications of Fructose. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 58:724S-732S. 
Heller CA, Scott EM. 1967. The Alaska Dietary Survey 1956-1961. Anchorage, AK: U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare. 
Holloway PS, Alexander G. 1990. Ethnobotany of the Fort Yukon Region, Alaska. Economic Botany 44:214-225 Huntington HP. 1992. Wildlife Management and Subsistence Hunting in Alaska. Seattle, WA: University of Washington Press. 
Irvine KN, Kaplan S. 2001. Coping with Change: The Small Experiment as a Strategic Approach to Environmental Sustainability. Environmental Management 28(6):713-725. 
Juday G, Ott RA, Valentine DW, Barber VA. Forests, Climate Stress, Insects and Fire. In: Weller G, Anderson PA, editors; 1998 1997; Fairbanks. Center for Global Change and Arctic System Research. 
Kari PR. 1985. Upper Tanana Ethnobotany. Alaska Historical Commission Studies in History No. 182. 
Kloppenburg J, Hendrickson J, Stevenson GW. 1996. Coming into the Foodshed. Agriculture and Human Values 13(3):33-42. 
Krupa DJ. 1999. Finding the Feather: Peter John and the Reverse Anthropology of the White Man Way. Madison: University of Wisconsin, Madison. 315 p. 
Krupnik I, Jolly D, editors. 2002. The Earth Is Faster Now: Indigenous Observations of Arctic Environmental Change. Fairbanks: Arctic Research Consortium of the United States. 
Kuhnlein HV, Chan HM, Leggee D, Barthet V. 2002. Macronutrient, Mineral and Fatty Acid Composition of Canadian Arctic Traditional Food. Journal of Food Composition and Analysis 15(5):545-566. 
Kuhnlein HV, Receveur O, Soueida R, Egeland GM. 2004. Arctic Indigenous Peoples Experience the Nutrition Transition with Changing Dietary Patterns and Obesity. Journal of Nutrition 134(6):1447-1453. 
Louv R. 2006. Last Child in the Woods. Chapel Hill: Algonquin Books. 118 Marie-Francoise AMM, Siebelink E, de Graaf C, Van Staveren WA. 2001. Flavor Enhancement of Food Improves Dietary Intake and Nutritional Status of Elderly Nursing Home Residents. The Journals of Gerontology Series A: Biological Sciences and Medical Sciences 56:M200-M205. 
Mitchell DC. 2003. Sold American. Fairbanks, AK: University of Alaska Press. 
Nabhan GP. 2004. Why Some Like It Hot: Food, Genes and Cultural Diversity. Washington, D.C.: Island Press. 
Nabhan GP, Trimble S. 1994. The Geography of Childhood. Boston: Beacon Press. 
Nationalatlas.gov. 2003. Alaska: Federal Lands and Indian Reservations. Reston, VA: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S.Geological Survey. 
Nobmann E, Byers T, Lanier AP, Hankin JH, Jackson MY. 1992. The Diet of Alaska Native Adults: 1987-1988. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 55(5):1024-1032. Norris F. 2002. Alaska Subsistence. Anchorage: U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service. 
Nuttall M. 2001. Indigenous Peoples and Climate Change Research in the Arctic. Indigenous Affairs 4:377-410. 
Olson WM. 1968. Minto, Alaska: Cultural and Historical Influences on Group Identity. College, AK: University of Alaska. 
1981. Minto, Alaska. In: Sturtevant WC, editor. Handbook of North American Indians. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press. 
Pollan M. 2006. The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals. New York: The Penguin Press. 
Reed LJ. 1995. Diet and Subsistence in Transition: Traditional and Western Pratices in an Alaskan Athapaskan Village: University of Oregon. 265 p. 
Shepherd PE. 1987. Relationship of Environmental Change to the Minto Flats Subsistence Resource Base. Anchorage: United States Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management. 34 p. 
Slaby DL. 1981. Demography of an Athabascan Village: Minto, Alaska. Fairbanks: University of Alaska Fairbanks. 
Sundkvist A, Milestad R, Jansson A. 2005. On the Importance of Tightening Feedback Loops for Sustainable Development of Food Systems. Food Policy 30:224-239. 119Thorburn AW, Brand JC, Truswell AS. 1987. Slowly Digested and Absorbed Carbohydrate in Traditional Bushfoods: A Protective Factor against Diabetes? American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 45(1):98-106. 
Troger S. 2002. Transformation of Food Systems in the Context of Political Change. 'World Interpretations' and Their Impact on Nutrition in South-West Tanzania. Die Erde 133(4):379-399. 
Village Council M. 1983. Minto: People of the Lakes. Minto: Minto Village Council. 
Wilk R, editor. 2006. Fast Food / Slow Food: The Cultural Economy of the Global Food System. Lanham: AltaMira Press. 
Zandstra E, Graaf C. 1998. Sensory Perception and Pleasantness of Orange Beverages from Childhood to Old Age. Food Quality preference 35:7-12. 120 CONCLUSION 
“We have it within our deepest powers not only to change our ‘selves’ but to change our culture. If man is to remain on earth he must transform the five-millenia-long urbanizing civilization tradition into a new ecologically sensitive harmony-oriented wild-minded scientific-spiritual culture. ‘Wilderness is the state of complete awareness. That’s why we need it.’” (Snyder 1969:174-175) 
With these papers included here I have explored some very complicated dimensions of change: how and why people change, how they actively use change to benefit their lives, and how those changes relate to the preservation and respect of tradition and identity. People like Patrick Smith in Minto take control every day over the forms that change takes in their communities and environments, even when confronted with drivers of change that are outside of their immediate control. Rapid, unanticipated and unprecedented change is happening in Alaska, and they continue to strive to the best of their abilities to remain, in their words, self-reliant and in charge of change, rather than at the mercy of it. I first travelled to Minto to explore but one change: a new, locally initiated community garden. Yet from our collaboration, an intimate sharing of stories, meals, concerns and expertise, an entire perspective on change emerged that is relevant not only to this and other rural communities in Alaska, but to people world-wide. And I found that my role there was not just to describe, catalog or interpret the changes in their lives, but to support and facilitate their initiatives as they wanted, through dialogue, collaboration and research. 121 Long-term social-ecological sustainability is only possible when the people of that society are able to manage change: to innovate, think outside of their cultural or traditional ‘boxes,’ and to find, in the face of adversity and surprise, vision enough to walk away from those things in their lives that are not working to transform themselves into something new – perhaps something healthier, more adaptive, resilient, efficient, more ecologically concomitant, or in a word, something more ‘elegant’ (Jackson 1980; Loring 2007; Quinn 1999; 2006; Snyder 1969; Weisman 1999). The communities discussed here, and indeed all Alaska Native communities are cases with histories illustrative of this proposition: they have lived effectively on the Alaskan landscape for millenia because they made a tradition of innovation and change. Within just the last 200 years Alaska Native communities have seen Russian and American colonization, Japanese invasion, isolation camps, famine caused by foreign overharvesting of wildlife, missionaries and missionary schools, rural agricultural development programs, the imposition of state and federal wildlife management regimes, a gold rush, land rush and now an oil rush and global warming. Through these same years they have transformed themselves significantly, from living in small groups with a highly-mobile lifestyle, to settlement in more permanent communities; they effectively combine and maintain traditions of the hunt with a cash economy and agricultural practices. Yet though many of the objects and habits of their lives have changed or disappeared, from canoes to motorboats, arrows to bullets, hand-axes to chainsaws, and dog-teams to snow-machines, Alaska Natives remain a distinct, vibrant, and diverse community of peoples. They celebrate their cultures through local gatherings, potlatches, community feasts and large-122 scale events like the World Eskimo-Indian Olympics, fight for their environmental and cultural integrity openly and effectively at forums such as the Alaska Forum on the Environment, and actively engage the contemporary political dialogue at state, federal, and international levels. 
      Of their many contemporary challenges, those with the most significant and troubling long-term implications are therefore not the ones outside the immediate reach of human innovation and adaptation such as the downscale impacts of global climatic and ecological change, but the ‘man-made’ ones. The state and federal regulatory frameworks I have described throughout these chapters construct ‘tradition’ in very different, temporally static terms. They confine Alaska Natives’ land access and wildlife harvest activities and to a historically established set of patterns and strategies which are derived from our perceptions and fragmented knowledge of their history. They do not by any means capture the realities of life in rural Alaska, now or in the past, where people meet challenges with experimentation and innovation. 
      Subjected by resource management regimes to a barely-navigable geographic patchwork of private, state, and federally owned land, and to a calendar of hunting seasons based on secular, incomplete and inaccurate information about wildlife abundances and migrations, Alaska Natives are no longer free to modify their land-use patterns in this ad-hoc and experimental manner. Without this license, and given that global climate change will continue to have unanticipated downscale impacts upon seasonality and weather, both the short- and long-term viability of the country food harvest as a primary source of livelihood is questionable at best. As such, store-bought 123 foods will continue to play an increasing role in local diets. Once, like the outpost gardens, store-bought foods contributed in healthy ways to viable Alaska Native lifestyles, playing small, complementary roles in a diversified economy and bolstering overalll food security. But as I have shown here, their increasing role of commercial foods as a substitute for wild, country foods has in recent years gone far towards decreasing Alaska Native communities’ health and self-reliance, and has increased their exposure to a wide variety of ecological, economic and political risks. 
      There is no one correct solution to contemporary challenges like these, nor can solutions come via mandate as has been attempted in the past. These globally-scalled challenges are, however, far less intractable from a local perspective than many believe (Huntington and others 2006; Irvine and Kaplan 2001). If enabled with the freedom and opportunity to experiment and innovate, no one is better equipped to find the solutions that best meet local needs than the people living in rural communities like Fort Yukon and Minto themselves (Gupta 2001; Irvine and Kaplan 2001; Von Braun and Virchow 2001). Where and when they deem necessary such community-based experiments do, however, need to be able to call upon the high-quality information a University scientist can provide or the project management expertise of a well-funded wildlife conservation organization. But such collaboration is only possible and fruitful with the support of political, economic and social institutions that are willing to take their direction from locally-founded movements to develop adaptive capacity, rebuild self-reliance and craft local definitions of self-reliance, sovereignty and control (Berkes 2005; Kottak 1990). Researchers, NGOs and other institutions must be willing to take direction and play the 124 roles of facilitator and supporter, rather than the familiar role of expert problem solver; otherwise the significant and varied challenges discussed here will not be met without continued destruction of Alaska’s diverse cultural landscape. Indeed if we make this possible, by according Alaska Natives the freedom to innovate and by structuring our cooperation with them in a way that confronts needs and challenges as they are perceived and defined by the communities themselves, long-term, sustainable solutions are far more likely to emerge (Weisman 1999). Future researchers should take note, and pursue projects that target needs as they are identified by the communities and researchers via collaboration and cooperation, in order to develop solutions that are more relevant, meaningful and effective that we have been able to accomplish so far. 
REFERENCES 
Berkes F. 2005. The Scientist as Facilitator or Adaptive Co-Manager? The Common Property Resource Digest 75:4-5. 
Gupta A. 2001. Grassroots Movements. In: Virchow D, Von Braun J, editors. Villages in the Future: Crops, Jobs and Livelihood. New York: Springer. Huntington HP, Boyle M, Flowers GE, Weatherly JW, Hamilton LC, Hinzman LD, Gerlach SC, Zulueta R, Nicolson C, Overpeck JT. 2006. The Influence of Human Activity in the Arctic on Climate and Climate Impacts. Climatic Change 81(3). 
Irvine KN, Kaplan S. 2001. Coping with Change: The Small Experiment as a Strategic Approach to Environmental Sustainability. Environmental Management 28(6):713-725. 
Jackson W. 1980. New Roots for Agriculture. San Francisco, CA: Friends of the Earth. 
Kottak CP. 1990. Culture And "Economic Development". American Anthropologist 92(3):723-732. 
Loring P. 2007. The Most Resilient Show on Earth: The Circus as a Model for Viewing Identity, Change and Chaos. Ecology and Society 12(1):9. 125 Quinn D. 1999. Beyond Civilization: Humanity's Next Great Adventure. New York, NY: Hanmony Books. 202 p. 
2006. The New Renaissance. If They Give You Lined Paper, Write Sideways. Hanover, NH: Steerforth Press. 
Snyder G. 1969. Four Changes. Turtle Island. Boston: Shambhala. p 208. 
Von Braun J, Virchow D. 2001. Village Futures:Concept, Overview and Policy Implications. In: Virchow D, Von Braun J, editors. Villages in the Future: Crops, Jobs and Livelihood. New York: Springer. 
Weisman A. 1999. Gaviotas: A Village to Reinvent the World. White River Junction: Chelsea Green Publishing Company. 280 p. 126 APPENDIX A 
Creative Commons License Information 
The materials presented in this thesis are protected by the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License. You are free to share, copy, or transmit the work, and to adapt and or cite the work, provided that you: 
1. Give Credit. If you use or reference the materials contained here you must cite this thesis in the following format: 
Loring P. 2007. Coming out of the Foodshed: Change and Innovation in Rural Alaskan Food Systems. Fairbanks: University of Alaska Fairbanks. 
2. Share alike. If you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you may distribute the resulting work only under the same, similar or a compatible license. 
Creative Commons provides free tools that let authors, scientists, artists, and educators easily mark their creative work with the freedoms they want it to carry. Anyone can use C to change their copyright terms from “All Rights Reserved” to “Some Rights Reserved.” 
For more information see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ or send a letter to Creative Commons, 543 Howard Street, 5th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105 127 APPENDIX B 
CD INFORMATION: Garden Records for Villages of the Yukon Circle, XLS and JPG Format 
The compact disc included with this thesis contains one (1) .XLS spreadsheet created in Microsoft® Excel 2003 and 299 scanned .JPG documents created using Runningman Software’s Digital File Cabinet (DFC). A summary of the data found in the scanned images is in the spreadsheet. Scanned images are organized as they were found at the US National Archives, Anchorage Alaska Office, with summary and citation information in text file format where available. Images are also included unsorted in the subdirectory “Unsorted.” For more information about DFC and Runningman SoftwarePrologue
Paris, France – 1878
Suzette nervously watched Madame Laurent take one final assessment of her appearance
before leading her up the grand staircase of the opulent Chabanais. Her hand brushed a stray
curl from Suzette’s cheek and then arranged a few strands strategically on her plump breasts
spilling over her bodice. Unfortunately, it was too late to do anything about the red blotches
creeping up her porcelain neck.
“As I stated earlier, I’ve procured Lord Holland for this evening. You shall not be
disappointed. He’s one of the more satisfying and kind patrons we have.” Madame Laurent
grasped Suzette’s cold hands in firm reassurance, before announcing her final instructions.
“I know you are apprehensive, Suzette, but this is your job. I have done my best to provide
for you. Do your best to satisfy him, in spite of your obvious fright. After all, this is a business.
If my customers are not gratified, I will not be happy.” Madame Laurent released her hands and
turned to ascend the stairs ahead of her employee. “Come along now. He is waiting.”
Suzette sighed, reluctant to follow the austere, brothel mistress. She was dressed as a
French queen and heading for the Louis XV Chambre to lose her virginity. Her legs could
barely climb the red-carpeted path to hell. Her deflowering had arrived, and Suzette was
terrified.
As she laboriously placed one foot in front of the other, her mind drifted to the events that
had cruelly driven her to this moment. Tears filled her eyes as Suzette painfully recalled the last
day with her loving father. Everything had changed in her innocent life—everything.
Chapter One
“Papa, can I get you anything else?”
Edgar saw his daughter glance warily across the table at his tired, wrinkled face. He lifted
the last piece of bread to his mouth, chewed it slowly, and then swallowed.
“Did you have a hard day?”
“No more than usual, angel.” He dabbed his mouth with his napkin, and then smiled at his
daughter. “Thank you for dinner. It was exceptionally good. You never disappoint, Suzette.”
“You are welcome, Father.”
Suzette gloated over his kind approval. Each night, without fail, he thanked her for dinner.
Edgar knew that she enjoyed doting over him whenever possible.
Satisfied and full, he watched his daughter rise to her feet. Suzette removed the empty
plates and dirty utensils. As she passed by his chair on the way to the kitchen, she bent down
and gave him an affectionate peck on his cheek.
“I’m glad you liked it. You should go and relax. You look tired.”
Edgar Rousseau exhaled a long, drawn-out sigh. His daughter had correctly sensed his
weary state of mind and body. He felt drained after spending the entire day lecturing. His feet
pounded, and his backed ached with every move.
He had a solid vocation as a professor at the University of Paris, and for the most part, he
enjoyed his position. However, his day had been filled with arguing students debating the New
Republic. Traditions, family roots, and passionate views were deeply inbred in the student body,
most of whom came from aristocratic and bourgeoisie families.
Confrontation went against the grain of his good, mild-mannered nature. He had discovered
that as he grew older, it had become harder to manage the daily stress of work. Unfortunately,
retiring was impossible to consider. He had a daughter to marry off, and financial matters that
needed to be settled.
Suzette headed for the kitchen, and Edgar rose from the table, silently cursing his aching
joints. He felt old and decrepit. His hair had turned noticeably gray over the past year, and he
had gained a considerable amount of weight around his belly.
He meandered over to his favorite overstuffed chair, flopped into the seat, and embarked on
his usual after-dinner routine of reading the newspaper. The words blurred before his tired eyes
as his mind refused to concentrate on the articles. He squinted at the paper for some time, and
then lifted his gaze toward the kitchen.
Edgar peered over the rims of his reading glasses and watched his petite, auburn-haired
daughter perform her chores. A pang of nostalgia stabbed his heart. She had grown into the
beautiful likeness of her mother. The resemblance was uncanny, and each time he considered
their similarities, sadness swept over his soul. He could not help but think of his dear, departed
wife, Marie. When he did, grief clutched his heart. It had been twelve years since his wife’s
death, yet the wounds were as fresh as the day she died.
After her passing, Edgar had naturally become extremely close to his daughter. Though he
had hired a governess to care for Suzette as a child, he dismissed her upon his daughter’s
sixteenth birthday. Suzette insisted that she was more than happy to assume the responsibilities
of running a household. Edgar’s modest salary forced him to agree.
Suzette had done well in taking over the management of their residence. He had no doubt
that she would make a splendid wife, mother, and caretaker one day. Although he believed his
daughter deserved better, Edgar allowed her to cook and clean, because Suzette assured him that
she enjoyed such tasks. He hoped that when she married, she would live comfortably enough to
assign such menial jobs to the household staff.
The newspaper no longer held his attention. He set it down and stood from his chair. His
unsteady feet shuffled over to his daughter’s side. An odd sense of discomfort pressed heavily
upon his chest. He needed rest.
“I think I’ll retire early. Would you mind?” He placed his hand gently upon her shoulder.
Suzette encouraged his decision. “No, Father, of course not. Go and rest. I’ll be fine.”
Edgar smiled at his daughter, and with a tender kiss on her cheek, he bid her goodnight. As
he slowly lumbered toward the fireplace, he briefly stopped to look at a picture of his wife on
top of the mantel. Silently, he prayed that she would visit him in his dreams. He needed her
comfort for his weary and lonely heart.
A moment later, he retreated down the hall to his bedchamber. Edgar entered and then
closed the door behind him, hoping to find respite and solace after a long day.
* * *
Suzette watched with concern as her father walked down the hallway to his bedchamber.
After hearing the door close, she returned her attention to the pile of dirty dishes. She smiled
thinking about his pause at the fireplace to look at her mother’s picture. His nightly ritual
touched her heart.
For years, Suzette hoped that his mourning would lessen, and he would remarry. It was
another unanswered prayer to add to her list. When her own grief subsided over the death of her
mother, she prayed that someone would fill the void. Eventually, as God’s silence grew harder
to bear, she stopped asking and refused to hold onto foolish hopes.
Obviously, her father did not want to remarry, even though Suzette longed for a mother’s
tender embrace and wisdom. Now, at the age of eighteen, she ached for female companionship.
She had no confidant to ask the many questions about womanhood that beset her mind.
After finishing her chores, she removed her stained apron and hung it up on the back of the
kitchen door. She walked past her father’s door, stopped, and heard the sound of snoring
coming from the other side. Thankful that he had quickly fallen asleep, she smiled with relief
and made her way to her room.
She closed the door and walked to the window, parted the heavy curtains, and looked at the
street below. Snow flurries danced about like white butterflies. The sight sent goosebumps up
her spine. It had been a long winter, and she was tired of the cold. She hoped this would be the
last trickle of snow, because springtime was just around the corner. It would not be long before
new life bloomed from the barren earth. It was by far her favorite time of the year.
After pulling the curtains tightly shut to keep out the cold draft, she walked over to her
chest of drawers. A small wooden jewelry box, with a variety of compartments, sat on a white
laced doily. She pulled out a little drawer at the bottom of the case and retrieved a folded piece
of paper. A smile brightened her face. It was time for her nightly ritual.
Suzette sat on the edge of her bed and carefully unfolded the precious document. Lovingly,
she lifted the tattered corners of the white parchment and read the words. Her fingers traced
along each stroke of the quill until they reached the end of the message. When finished, she
brought the letter to her lips and kissed it reverently. The parchment was carefully folded into
the same creases and returned to its hiding place. Tomorrow night, she would resurrect it once
again, read it, and kiss it goodnight just as she had done for months on end since its arrival.
Cold and tired, she yawned, and then undressed to slip into a beige, cotton nightgown. She
turned out the oil lamp and climbed between the cool sheets. The cold made her shiver, and she
pulled her wool blanket up to her chin.
