much compliance and way too little engagement. The former might get you through the
day, but only the latter will get you through the night. And that brings us back to
Csikszentmihalyi’s story.
In his early teens, after witnessing the atrocities of Nazi Germany and the Soviet takeover
of his country, Csikszentmihalyi was understandably weary of compliance and looking
for engagement. But he wouldn’t find it at school. He dropped out of high school at
thirteen. For nearly a decade, he worked in various Western European countries at a
series of jobs, some odder than others, to support himself. And hoping to answer his
youthful question about a better way to live, he read everything he could get his hands on
in religion and philosophy. What he learned didn’t satisfy him. It wasn’t until he
inadvertently stumbled into a lecture by none other than Carl Jung that he heard about the
field of psychology and decided that it might hold the secrets he sought.
So in 1956, at the age of twenty-two, Csikszentmihalyi set off for the United States to
study psychology. He arrived in Chicago, a high school dropout with $1.25 in his pocket
whose only familiarity with the English language came from reading Pogo comic strips.
Hungarian contacts in Chicago helped him find a job and a place to live. His knowledge
of Latin, German, and Pogo helped him pass the Illinois high school equivalency test in a
language he neither spoke nor read. He enrolled in the University of Illinois-Chicago,
took classes during the day, worked as a hotel auditor at night, and eventually wound up
at the University of Chicago psychology department, where—just nine years after setting
peace negotiations with the United States and Great Britain. Meanwhile, Soviet troops
were advancing on the capital city.
It was time to leave. So the foursome boarded a train for Venice, Italy, where
Csikszentmihalyi’s father, a diplomat, was working. As the train rumbled southwest,
bombs exploded in the distance. Bullets ripped through the train’s windows, while a rifletoting
soldier on board fired back at the attackers. The ten-year-old crouched under his
seat, terrified but also a little annoyed.
“It struck me at that point that grown-ups had really no idea how to live,”
two weeks. But almost immediately, something strange happened. Unbidden by any
outside urging and unprompted by the experimenters, the monkeys began playing with
the puzzles with focus, determination, and what looked like enjoyment. And in short
order, they began figuring out how the contraptions worked. By the time Harlow tested
the monkeys on days 13 and 14 of the experiment, the primates had become quite adept.
They solved the puzzles frequently and quickly; two-thirds of the time they cracked the
code in less than sixty seconds.
Now, this was a bit odd. Nobody had taught the monkeys how to remove the pin, slide
the hook, and open the cover. Nobody had rewarded them with food, affection, or even
quiet applause when they succeeded. And that ran counter to the accepted notions of how
primates—including the bigger-brained, less hairy primates known as human beings—
behaved.
Scientists then knew that two main drives powered behavior. The first was the biological
drive. Humans and other animals ate to sate their hunger, drank to quench their thirst, 

time” with a purpose.
THE GOOD LIFE
Each year about thirteen hundred seniors graduate from the University of Rochester and
begin their journey into what many of their parents and professors like to call the real
world. Edward Deci, Richard Ryan, and their colleague Christopher Niemiec decided to
ask a sample of these soon-to-be graduates about their life goals—and then to follow up
with them early in their careers to see how they were doing. While much social science
research is done with student volunteers, scientists rarely track students after they’ve
packed up their diplomas and exited the campus gates. And these researchers wanted to
study the post-college time frame because it represents a “critical development period
that marks people’s transitions to their adult identities and lives.”14
Some of the U of R students had what Deci, Ryan, and Niemiec label “extrinsic
aspirations”—for instance, to become wealthy or to achieve fame—what we might call
“profit goals.” Others had “intrinsic aspirations”—to help others improve their lives, to
learn, and to grow—or what we might think of as “purpose goals.” After these students
had been out in the real word for between one and two years, the researchers tracked
them down to see how they were faring.
The people who’d had purpose goals and felt they were attaining them reported higher
levels of satisfaction and subjective well-being than when they were in college, and quite
low levels of anxiety and depression. That’s probably no surprise. They’d set a personally
meaningful goal and felt they were reaching it. In that situation, most of us would likely
feel pretty good, too.
But the results for people with profit goals were more complicated. Those who said they
were attaining their goals—accumulating wealth, winning acclaim—reported levels of
satisfaction, self-esteem, and positive affect no higher than when they were students. In
other words, they’d reached their goals, but it didn’t make them any happier. What’s
more, graduates with profit goals showed increases in anxiety, depression, and other
negative indicators—again, even though they were attaining their goals.
“One cannot lead a life that is truly excellent without feeling that one belongs to
something greater and more permanent than oneself.”
MIHALY CSIKSZENTMIHALYI
“These findings are rather striking,” the researchers write, “as they suggest that
attainment of a particular set of goals [in this case, profit goals] has no impact on wellbeing
and actually contributes to i ll-being.”15
When I discussed these results with Deci and Ryan, they were especially emphatic about
their significance—because the findings suggest that even when we do get what we want,
it’s not always what we need. “People who are very high in extrinsic goals for wealth are
more likely to attain that wealth, but they’re still unhappy,” Ryan told me.
Or as Deci put it, “The typical notion is this: You value something. You attain it. Then
you’re better off as a function of it. But what we find is that there are certain things that if
you value and if you attain them, you’re worse off as a result of it, not better off.”
Failing to understand this conundrum—that satisfaction depends not merely on having
goals, but on having the right goals—can lead sensible people down self-destructive
paths. If people chase profit goals, reach those goals, and still don’t feel any better about
their lives, one response is to increase the size and scope of the goals—to seek more
money or greater outside validation. And that can “drive them down a road of further
unhappiness thinking it’s the road to happiness,” Ryan said.
“One of the reasons for anxiety and depression in the high attainers is that they’re not
having good relationships. They’re busy making money and attending to themselves and
that means that there’s less room in their lives for love and attention and caring and
empathy and the things that truly count,” Ryan added.
And if the broad contours of these findings are true for individuals, why shouldn’t they
also be true for organizations—which, of course, are collections of individuals? I don’t
mean to say that profit doesn’t matter. It does. The profit motive has been an important
fuel for achievement. But it’s not the only motive. And it’s not the most important one.
Indeed, if we were to look at history’s greatest achievements—from the printing press to
constitutional democracy to cures for deadly diseases—the spark that kept the creators
working deep into the night was purpose at least as much as profit. A healthy society—
and healthy business organizations—begins with purpose and considers profit a way to
move toward that end or a happy by-product of its attainment.
And here the boomers—maybe, just maybe—can take the lead. On the subjects of
autonomy and mastery, adults should look to the eloquent example of children. But
perhaps purpose is another matter. Being able to contemplate the big picture, to ponder
one’s own mortality, to understand the paradox that attaining certain goals isn’t the
answer seem to require having spent a few years on the planet. And since the planet very
soon will contain more people over age sixty-five than under age five for the first time in
its existence, the timing couldn’t be better.
It’s in our nature to seek purpose. But that nature is now being revealed and expressed on
a scale that is demographically unprecedented and, until recently, scarcely imaginable.
The consequences could rejuvenate our businesses and remake our world.
A CENTRAL IDEA of this book has been the mismatch between what science knows
and what business does. The gap is wide. Its existence is alarming. And though closing it
seems daunting, we have reasons to be optimistic.
The scientists who study human motivation, several of whom we’ve encountered in this
book, offer us a sharper and more accurate account of both human performance and the
human condition. The truths they’ve revealed are simple, yet powerful. The science
shows that those typical twentieth-century carrot-and-stick motivators—things we
consider somehow a “natural” part of human enterprise—can sometimes work. But
they’re effective in only a surprisingly narrow band of circumstances. The science shows
that “if-then” rewards—the mainstays of the Motivation 2.0 operating system—not only
are ineffective in many situations, but also can crush the high-level, creative, conceptual
abilities that are central to current and future economic and social progress. The science
shows that the secret to high performance isn’t our biological drive or our reward-andpunishment
drive, but our third drive—our deep-seated desire to direct our own lives, to
extend and expand our abilities, and to live a life of purpose.
Bringing our businesses in sync with these truths won’t be easy. Unlearning old ideas is
difficult, undoing old habits even harder. And I’d be less sanguine about the prospects of
closing the motivation gap anytime soon, if it weren’t for this: The science confirms what
we already know in our hearts.
We know that human beings are not merely smaller, slower, better-smelling horses
galloping after that day’s carrot. We know—if we’ve spent time with young children or
remember ourselves at our best—that we’re not destined to be passive and compliant.
We’re designed to be active and engaged. And we know that the richest experiences in
our lives aren’t when we’re clamoring for validation from others, but when we’re
listening to our own voice—doing something that matters, doing it well, and doing it in
the service of a cause larger than ourselves.
So, in the end, repairing the mismatch and bringing our understanding of motivation into
the twenty-first century is more than an essential move for business. It’s an affirmation of
our humanity.
Part Three
The Type I Toolkit
Welcome to the Type I Toolkit.
This is your guide to taking the ideas in this book and putting them into action.
Whether you’re looking for a better way to run your organization, navigate your career,
or help your kids, there’s a tip, a best practice, or a recommended book for you. And if
ever you need a quick summary of Drive, or you want to look up one of its terms, you can
find that here, too.
You don’t have to read this section in any particular order. Pick an entry that interests
you and dive right in. Like any good toolkit, this one is versatile enough for you to return
to again and again.
P.S. I’d love to hear your suggestions for what to include in future editions of the Type I
Toolkit. Send your ideas directly to me at dhp@danpink.com.
WHAT’S IN THIS TOOLKIT
Type I for Individuals: Nine Strategies for Awakening Your Motivation
Type I for Organizations: Nine Ways to Improve Your Company, Office, or Group
The Zen of Compensation: Paying People the Type I Way
Type I for Parents and Educators: Nine Ideas for Helping Our Kids
The Type I Reading List: Fifteen Essential Books
Listen to the Gurus: Six Business Thinkers Who Get It
The Type I Fitness Plan: Four Tips for Getting (and Staying) Motivated to Exercise
Drive: The Recap
Drive: The Glossary
The Drive Discussion Guide: Twenty Conversation Starters to Keep You Thinking and
Talking
Find Out More—About Yourself and This Topic
Type I for Individuals: Nine Strategies for Awakening Your Motivation
Type I’s are made, not born. Although the world is awash in extrinsic motivators, there’s
a lot we can do to bring more autonomy, mastery, and purpose into our work and life.
Here are nine exercises to get you on the right track.
GIVE YOURSELF A “FLOW TEST”
Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi did more than discover the concept of “flow.” He also
introduced an ingenious new technique to measure it. Csikszentmihalyi and his
University of Chicago team equipped participants in their research studies with electronic
pagers. Then they paged people at random intervals (approximately eight times a day) for
a week, asking them to describe their mental state at that moment. Compared with
previous methods, these real-time reports proved far more honest and revealing.
You can use Csikszentmihalyi’s methodological innovation in your own quest for
mastery by giving yourself a “flow test.” Set a reminder on your computer or mobile
phone to go off at forty random times in a week. Each time your device beeps, write
down what you’re doing, how you’re feeling, and whether you’re in “flow.” Record your
observations, look at the patterns, and consider the following questions:
• Which moments produced feelings of “flow”? Where were you? What were you
working on? Who were you with?
• Are certain times of day more flow-friendly than others? How could you restructure
your day based on your findings?
• How might you increase the number of optimal experiences and reduce the moments
when you felt disengaged or distracted?
• If you’re having doubts about your job or career, what does this exercise tell you about
your true source of intrinsic motivation?
FIRST, ASK A BIG QUESTION . . .
In 1962, Clare Boothe Luce, one of the first women to serve in the U.S. Congress,
offered some advice to President John F. Kennedy. “A great man,” she told him, “is one
sentence.” Abraham Lincoln’s sentence was: “He preserved the union and freed the
slaves.” Franklin Roosevelt’s was: “He lifted us out of a great depression and helped us
win a world war.” Luce feared that Kennedy’s attention was so splintered among
different priorities that his sentence risked becoming a muddled paragraph.
You don’t have to be a president—of the United States or of your local gardening club—
to learn from this tale. One way to orient your life toward greater purpose is to think
about your sentence. Maybe it’s: “He raised four kids who became happy and healthy
adults.” Or “She invented a device that made people’s lives easier.” Or “He cared for
every person who walked into his office regardless of whether that person could pay.” Or
“She taught two generations of children how to read.”
As you contemplate your purpose, begin with the big question: What’s your sentence?
. . . THEN KEEP ASKING A SMALL
QUESTION
The big question is necessary, but not sufficient. That’s where the small question comes
in. Real achievement doesn’t happen overnight. As anyone who’s trained for a marathon,
learned a new language, or run a successful division can attest, you spend a lot more time
grinding through tough tasks than you do basking in applause.
Here’s something you can do to keep yourself motivated. At the end of each day, ask
yourself whether you were better today than you were yesterday. Did you do more? Did
you do it well? Or to get specific, did you learn your ten vocabulary words, make your
eight sales calls, eat your five servings of fruits and vegetables, write your four pages?
You don’t have to be flawless each day. Instead, look for small measures of improvement
such as how long you practiced your saxophone or whether you held off on checking email
until you finished that report you needed to write. Reminding yourself that you don’t
need to be a master by day 3 is the best way of ensuring you will be one by day 3,000.
So before you go to sleep each night, ask yourself the small question: Was I better today
than yesterday?
TAKE A SAGMEISTER
The designer Stefan Sagmeister has found a brilliant way to ensure he’s living a Type I
life. Think about the standard pattern in developed countries, he says. People usually
spend the first twenty-five or so years of their lives learning, the next forty or so years
working, and the final twenty-five in retirement. That boilerplate timeline got Sagmeister
wondering: Why not snip five years from retirement and sprinkle them into your working
years?
So every seven years, Sagmeister closes his graphic design shop, tells his clients he won’t
be back for a year, and goes off on a 365-day sabbatical. He uses the time to travel, to
live places he’s never been, and to experiment with new projects. It sounds risky, I know.
But he says the ideas he generates during the year “off ” often provide his income for the
next seven years. “Taking a Sagmeister,” as I now call it, requires a fair bit of planning
and saving, of course. But doesn’t forgoing that big-screen TV seem a small price to pay
for an unforgettable—and un-get-backable—year of personal exploration? The truth is,
this idea is more realistic than many of us realize. Which is why I hope to take a
Sagmeister in a couple of years and why you should consider it, too.
GIVE YOURSELF A PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
Performance reviews, those annual or biannual rituals of organizational life, are about as
enjoyable as a toothache and as productive as a train wreck. Nobody likes them—not the
giver, not the receiver. They don’t really help us achieve mastery—since the feedback
often comes six months after the work is complete. (Imagine Serena Williams or Twyla
Tharp seeing their results or reading reviews only twice a year.) And yet managers keep
on hauling employees into their offices for those awkward, painful encounters.
Maybe there’s a better way. Maybe, as Douglas McGregor and others have suggested, we
should give ourselves our own performance reviews. Here’s how. Figure out your
goals—mostly learning goals, but also a few performance goals—and then every month,
call yourself to your office and give yourself an appraisal. How are you faring? Where
are you falling short? What tools, information, or support might you need to do better?
Some other hints:
• Set both smaller and larger goals so that when it comes time to evaluate yourself you’ve
already accomplished some whole tasks.
• Make sure you understand how every aspect of your work relates to your larger
purpose.
• Be brutally honest. This exercise is aimed at helping you improve performance and
achieve mastery—so if you rationalize failures or gloss over your mistakes instead of
learning from them, you’re wasting your time.
And if doing this solo isn’t your thing, gather a small group of colleagues for regular
peer-based do-it-yourself performance reviews. If your comrades really care, they’ll tell
you the truth and hold you accountable. One last question for bosses: Why in God’s name
are you not encouraging all your employees to do this?
GET UNSTUCK BY GOING OBLIQUE
Even the most intrinsically motivated person sometimes gets stuck. So here’s a simple,
easy, and fun way to power out of your mental morass. In 1975, producer Brian Eno and
artist Peter Schmidt published a set of one hundred cards containing strategies that helped
them overcome the pressure-packed moments that always accompany a deadline. Each
card contains a single, often inscrutable, question or statement to push you out of a
mental rut. (Some examples: What would your closest friend do? Your mistake was a
hidden intention. What is the simplest solution? Repetition is a form of change. Don’t
avoid what is easy.) If you’re working on a project and find yourself stymied, pull an
Oblique card from the deck. These brain bombs are a great way to keep your mind open
One key to mastery is what Florida State University psychology professor Anders
Ericsson calls “deliberate practice”—a “lifelong period of . . . effort to improve
performance in a specific domain.” Deliberate practice isn’t running a few miles each day
or banging on the piano for twenty minutes each morning. It’s much more purposeful,
focused, and, yes, painful. Follow these steps—over and over again for a decade—and
you just might become a master:
In his insightful book Rules of Thumb, Fast Company magazine cofounder Alan Webber
offers a smart and simple exercise for assessing whether you’re on the path to autonomy,
mastery, and purpose. Get a few blank three-by-five-inch cards. On one of the cards,
write your answer to this question: “What gets you up in the morning?” Now, on the
other side of the card, write your answer to another question: “What keeps you up at
night?” Pare each response to a single sentence. And if you don’t like an answer, toss the
card and try again until you’ve crafted something you can live with. Then read what
you’ve produced. If both answers give you a sense of meaning and direction,
“Congratulations!” says Webber. “Use them as your compass, checking from time to time
to see if they’re still true. If you don’t like one or both of your answers, it opens up a new
question: What are you going to do about it?”
Office posters that try to “motivate” us have a grim reputation. As one wag put it, “For
the last two decades, motivational posters have inflicted unimaginable suffering on the
workplaces of the world.” But who knows? Perhaps the first one was a thing of beauty.
Maybe those cave drawings in Lascaux, France, were some Paleolithic motivational
speaker’s way of saying, “If you know where you’re going, you’ll never take a wrong
turn.” Now you’ve got a chance to fight back (or perhaps to reclaim that ancient legacy).
Thanks to a number of websites, you can create your own motivational posters—and you
no longer have to settle for photos of kittens climbing out of baskets. You can be as
serious or silly with this exercise as you like. Motivation is deeply personal and only you
know what words or images will resonate with you.
Try any of these sites:
Kimley-Horn and Associates, a civil engineering firm in Raleigh, North Carolina, has
established a reward system that gets the Type I stamp of approval: At any point, without
asking permission, anyone in the company can award a $50 bonus to any of her
colleagues. “It works because it’s real-time, and it’s not handed down from any
management,” the firm’s human resources director told Fast Company. “Any employee
who does something exceptional receives recognition from their peers within minutes.”
Because these bonuses are noncontingent “now that” rewards, they avoid the seven
deadly flaws of most corporate carrots. And because they come from a colleague, not a
boss, they carry a different (and perhaps deeper) meaning. You could even say they’re
motivating.
1. How much autonomy do you have over your tasks at work—your main responsibilities
and what you do in a given day?
2. How much autonomy do you have over your time at work—for instance, when you
arrive, when you leave, and how you allocate your hours each day?
3. How much autonomy do you have over your team at work—that is, to what extent are
you able to choose the people with whom you typically collaborate?
4. How much autonomy do you have over your technique at work—how you actually
perform the main responsibilities of your job?
Make sure all responses are anonymous. Then tabulate the results. What’s the employee
average? The figure will fall somewhere on a 40-point autonomy scale (with 0 being a
North Korean prison and 40 being Woodstock). Compare that number to people’s
perceptions. Perhaps the boss thought everyone had plenty of freedom—but the audit
showed an average autonomy rating of only 15. Also calculate separate results for task,
time, team, and technique. A healthy overall average can sometimes mask a problem in a
particular area. An overall autonomy rating of, say, 27 isn’t bad. However, if that average
consists of 8 each for task, technique, and team, but only 3 for time, you’ve identified an
autonomy weak spot in the organization.
It’s remarkable sometimes how little the people running organizations know about the
experiences of the people working around them. But it’s equally remarkable how often
leaders are willing to do things differently if they see real data. That’s what an autonomy
audit can do. And if you include a section in your audit for employees to jot down their
own ideas about increasing autonomy, you might even find some great solutions.
GIVING UP CONTROL
Type X bosses relish control. Type I bosses relinquish control. Extending people the
freedom they need to do great work is usually wise, but it’s not always easy. So if you’re
feeling the urge to control, here are three ways to begin letting go—for your own benefit
and your team’s:
1. Involve people in goal-setting. Would you rather set your own goals or have them
foisted upon you? Thought so. Why should those working with you be any different? A
considerable body of research shows that individuals are far more engaged when they’re
pursuing goals they had a hand in creating. So bring employees into the process. They
could surprise you: People often have higher aims than the ones you assign them.
2. Use noncontrolling language. Next time you’re about to say “must” or “should,” try
saying “think about” or “consider” instead. A small change in wording can help promote
engagement over compliance and might even reduce some people’s urge to defy. Think
about it. Or at least consider it, okay?
3. Hold office hours. Sometimes you need to summon people into your office. But
sometimes it’s wise to let them come to you. Take a cue from college professors and set
following day. Type I organizations know what their Type X counterparts rarely
comprehend: Real challenges are far more invigorating than controlled leisure.
The Zen of Compensation: Paying People the Type I Way
Everybody wants to be paid well. I sure do. I bet you’re the same. The Type I approach to
motivation doesn’t require bargain basement wages or an all-volunteer workforce, but it
does demand a new approach to pay.
Think of this new approach as the Zen of compensation: In Motivation 3.0, the best use of
money is to take the issue of money off the table.
The more prominent salary, perks, and benefits are in someone’s work life, the more they
can inhibit creativity and unravel performance. As Edward Deci explained in Chapter 3,
when organizations use rewards like money to motivate staff, “that’s when they’re most
demotivating.” The better strategy is to get compensation right—and then get it out of
sight. Effective organizations compensate people in amounts and in ways that allow
individuals to mostly forget about compensation and instead focus on the work itself.
Here are three key techniques.
If you have provided adequate baseline rewards and established internal and external
fairness, consider borrowing a strategy first surfaced by a Nobel laureate. In the mid-
1980s, George Akerlof, who later won the Nobel Prize in economics, and his wife, Janet
Yellen, who’s also an economist, discovered that some companies seemed to be
overpaying their workers. Instead of paying employees the wages that supply and
demand would have predicted, they gave their workers a little more. It wasn’t because the
companies were selfless and it wasn’t because they were stupid. It was because they were
savvy. Paying great people a little more than the market demands, Akerlof and Yellen
found, could attract better talent, reduce turnover, and boost productivity and morale.
Higher wages could actually reduce a company’s costs.
The pay-more-than-average approach can offer an elegant way to bypass “if-then”
rewards, eliminate concerns about unfairness, and help take the issue of money off the
table. It’s another way to allow people to focus on the work itself. Indeed, other
economists have shown that providing an employee a high level of base pay does more to
boost performance and organizational commitment than an attractive bonus structure.
Of course, by the very nature of the exercise, paying above the average will work for only
sales goal for the next quarter. If you’re smart, or if you’ve got a family to feed, you’re
going to try mightily to hit that number. You probably won’t concern yourself much with
the quarter after that or the health of the company or whether the firm is investing enough
in research and development. And if you’re nervous, you might cut corners to reach your
quarterly goal.
Now imagine you’re a product manager and your pay is determined by these factors: your
sales for the next quarter; your sales in the current year; the company’s revenue and profit
in the next two years; levels of satisfaction among your customers; ideas for new
products; and evaluations of your coworkers. If you’re smart, you’ll probably try to sell
your product, serve your customers, help your teammates, and, well, do good work.
When metrics are varied, they’re harder to finagle.
In addition, the gain for reaching the metrics shouldn’t be too large. When the payoff for
reaching targets is modest, rather than massive, it’s less likely to narrow people’s focus or
encourage them to take the low road.
To be sure, finding the right mix of metrics is difficult and will vary considerably across
organizations. And some people will inevitably find a way to game even the most
carefully calibrated system. But using a variety of measures that reflect the totality of
great work can transform often counterproductive “if-then” rewards into less combustible
“now that” rewards.
Type I for Parents and Educators: Nine Ideas for Helping Our Kids
All kids start out as curious, self-directed Type I’s. But many of them end up as
disengaged, compliant Type X’s. What’s going on? Maybe the problem is us—the adults
who are running schools and heading families. If we want to equip young people for the
new world of work—and, more important, if we want them to lead satisfying lives—we
need to break Motivation 2.0’s grip on education and parenting.
Unfortunately, as with business, there’s a mismatch between what science knows and
what schools do. Science knows (and you do, too, if you read Chapter 2) that if you
promise a preschooler a fancy certificate for drawing a picture, that child will likely
draw a picture for you—and then lose further interest in drawing. Yet in the face of this
evidence—and as the world economy demands more nonroutine, creative, conceptual
abilities—too many schools are moving in the wrong direction. They’re redoubling their
emphasis on routines, right answers, and standardization. And they’re hauling out a
wagon full of “if-then” rewards—pizza for reading books, iPods for showing up to class,
cash for good test scores. We’re bribing students into compliance instead of challenging
them into engagement.
We can do better. And we should. If we want to raise Type I kids, at school and at home,
we need to help them move toward autonomy, mastery, and purpose. Here are nine ways
to start the journey.
