"Sound full alert. Dan, call for that planet-hopper. Dr. Callins, please assemble your staff and ensure all evac prep is carried out. You have four hours." 
Callins protested, spluttering, "What —? But... you can't —" She shooed him out of the room, still protesting. Illyana knew she was the least-respected member of staff on the planet, but security technically outranked non-combat personnel, so he could suck it. 
Dannion's fingers hovered over the console. "Illyana... don't go out there. Please." 
She smiled sadly. "Dan... there's nothing I'd rather do than stay here and just wait for evac. But I can't. It's my job." Deep down, even after the horror and trauma, Illyana Jorres was still a soldier. A marine. And she couldn't just stand by while... while... 
She didn't even want to think of the word. 
"Krakulv Base, this is the marine Destroyer Victory. We have visual; please respond." 
Five minutes ahead of schedule. Lee switched her headset to the outbound channel. "Victory, this is Krakulv Base, Major Lee Treicher speaking. Good to hear you. We're just about cooked down here. I have approx one-zero-zero to one-five-zero survivors for evac; please advise." 
"Looking kind of crowded down there, Major. Can we land a Destroyer in your bay?" 
Lee swore under her breath. Krakulv hadn't been designed to handle a ship the size of the Victory. Nobody had thought it would be necessary. "Negative. Can you set down outside the walls?" 
"Negative back at you. There's a blanket of zerg for half a klick in all directions." 
"Did you already pick up our medivacs?" 
"Affirmative, all present and accounted for." 
"Then listen up. We have one medivac remaining here. Send three more down empty, then move into position over the base and give us air-to-surface artillery fire to buy us time." 
The line went silent. Lee knew the ship's captain would be weighing her suggestion, but it was the only sensible option. Even a basic Destroyer like the Victory was loaded out with enough artillery to make the zerg think twice, and had enough armor to withstand counterattacks. 
The line crackled back to life. "Copy that, Major. Sounds like a plan. ETA to firing 
position is three minutes. We'll launch the medivacs from there." 
Lee spent the next three minutes coordinating her marines. She directed injured troops to the base's remaining medivac, and ordered everyone else to fall back inside the building. Then she sent the remaining centcomm skeleton crew to the medivac bay. They 
argued, but backed down when she hit them with that cold glare that worked so well on Brach. They filed out... and ran into her husband, pushing his way through in the opposite direction. 
"Lee! Come on; let's go!" 
A green light on the main console signaled the medivac pilot was ready. Lee opened the hangar blast doors. "You go ahead, Brach. I'm staying until final evac." 
"This is final evac! The Destroyer's leveling into position. This base is not a starship, Lee, and you're not the captain! You don't have to go down with it!" 
"I don't intend to. But we can't risk the zerg getting our intel, and there's no time to wipe everything." 
"So set the self-destruct nukes, and let's go!" 
"It's not that simple. Too short a timer, we might take out the Victory and everyone on board. Too long, and the zerg could have cleared out with everything before the nukes are even primed." 
"Then what do you suggest?" 
Lee looked down at the console. With the marines retreating, the zerg were already starting to breach the outer sectors of the main building. And roaches would make short work of the bulkhead blast doors, including the one here in centcomm. She turned to Brach and smiled. "Remember how I argued about bringing the trophy cabinet?" 
"Yeah..." 
She stood on tiptoes and kissed him on the cheek. "Well, now you're a genius. Here's the plan..." 
The jungle jeep rattled over rough ground, crashing through the rainforest's undergrowth as fast as Illyana dared drive. Vines and creepers smacked the windshield, breaking and falling away while insects and small primates scattered out of the jeep's path. 
The shadow of the mountain turned the afternoon sun into a twilight glow, but she made out the biosphere ahead, a hundred meters higher up the mountainside. From here it looked OK. There might be fine mist rising from one of the domes, but this was a humid environment. She'd seen steam rising from bare rock out here at times, just because of the rainforest's heat. 
Illyana turned the jungle jeep back onto the dirt track. She was close enough now that it would make little difference, and trying to drive up the side of a Garxxax mountain in a mohican was just asking for trouble. 
She reached the base and parked. Something was definitely amiss. The base was completely dark, no sign of power or life at all. Cracks spidered up the geodesic shell of the nearest dome. The main entrance door had been ripped from its frame, battered and discarded on the forest floor, and inside Illyana saw only devastation. 
The central hub looked as if wild animals had rampaged through it, mindlessly destroying equipment, consoles, and furnishings. Tangled power wires fizzed and popped, poking out from wrecked panels. Floor plates were smashed, as if broken by the pounding hooves of a beast herd. Was there some native life on the planet they were unaware of? Some enormous beast that could stampede through a structure like this? 
She opened her comm. "Kortter, this is Jorres. I'm at sphere three, and it's bad. Almost total destruction." 
Dan's response was filled with static. "Just about read you, Jorres... You all right? 
Sound... damn thing. Comms are failing... out there?" 
"I'm fine," she lied. "Just tell me you called that evac." 
"Affirmative... before you even left... ninety minutes... come back." 
"It's OK; I read you. Static like hell, but I read you." 
"No, dumbass... come back! Four more spheres... happening... get off this rock!" 
Four more spheres down. And she'd bet her savings they were still falling in that circular pattern. A pattern that was, slowly but methodically, surrounding the central base. 
Illyana reached the airlock to the main sphere. Every sphere had one, to maintain its ecosystem's integrity. The doors were set to lock automatically if a sphere was breached, but she punched in a security override code, holding her breath. 
The door unlocked with a heavy metallic sound. At least those systems were still operating. The metal handle was hot, which she figured was down to the environment controls' being screwed until she remembered where she was. 
Biosphere three was researching two indigenous life forms. One was a tree whose vines bled a weird sap that stuck to neosteel like glue. They were trying to figure if they could use the stuff as a neosteel-strengthening agent. The problem was, the sap was also seriously flammable. All it took to generate a fire was a single gunshot... or, they had discovered, a chemical incendiary reaction to the second dome's inhabitants. 
The zantar slug was just a few inches long, but excreted a highly corrosive mucous when threatened, to deter predators. The mucous could eat through neosteel... and ignite 
the sap if they touched. In nature, the slugs and vines lived at opposite ends of the continent. But time and chance sometimes brought them together, generating an explosive reaction that made Raynolds, a chemical biologist, very excited. He once joked that Garxxax's tropical storms were all that kept the planet from burning to a crisp. But in the artificial biospheres, they could control and examine the reaction in safety. 
The next problem was catching the slugs. They weren't intelligent per se, but they had enough survival instinct to get the hell out of the way when endangered. Evidence of this was found on the planet's rainforest floor, where clusters of tiny sinkholes hinted at groups of zantar slugs that had burrowed underground. 
Raynolds and his colleagues were trying to decode the makeup of the mucous that allowed the slugs to carry it without being harmed by its corrosive properties. The mystery seemed to be connected with their strange metabolism, which meant they healed outrageously fast. Hesken had once shown Illyana video of a slug being all but sliced in two, then stitching itself back together and moving on as if nothing had happened. On the video it had taken less than a minute, and she'd asked Hesken what the frame rate was. He had laughed, and said it was real time. No time-lapse recording required. 
Now Illyana looked around at the devastation in the sphere, and wondered what could have gone wrong. The vine sap ecosystem was all but razed to the ground. The sprinklers had kicked in and saved some vines, but not before the fire's heat had cracked open the dome above. 
The floor was littered with the charred bodies of slugs. She assumed they were casualties from Raynolds's experimental stock, freed when their jars and cages burnt. 
She realized how wrong she was when she brushed past a vine, and a shower of zantar slugs fell on her from above. She was lucky — none of them touched her head, visor, or oxygen tubing. But several landed on her right arm, and reacted instinctively before she could brush them off. Some landed on vines, setting the sap alight. They shriveled and fell while the fires burnt themselves out quickly, with nowhere left to spread. 
The back of her hand burned as hot as the flames. A searing pain crept up her forearm, and she realized they weren't just on her hand. The hand just had more nerve receptors to register the pain. 
She ripped off her glove, frantically tore the coolsuit arm away from its shoulder, and stared in horror. Patches of skin on her hand and arm smoked and hissed as the slugs' acid settled into her flesh. On the floor, the fabric of her coolsuit arm and glove melted like ice. The mucous even ate into the sections of neosteel plating that had covered her major muscles. 
Illyana cried out. The pain was like nothing she'd ever felt, not even in the war. Worse, it wasn't even an enemy-inflicted wound, but a mishap that was ultimately her own stupid fault. She felt like a rank amateur, and cursed her stubbornness. She should have listened to Dan, stayed in the central base, and helped prep for evac. 
But she hadn't. And that same stubbornness kept her moving, drawing her P220 with her left hand. Somehow, the slugs had gotten free in here, lit up the vine sap, and razed the ecosystem in this dome to the ground. But how? 
She backed out into the destroyed hub. The slugs and sap fire certainly hadn't caused all the damage in here. So what had? She walked down the second corridor to the 
slug dome, and found the answer to her first question. The airlock's inner door had been torn from its hinges and lay on the floor, bent and battered. 
It was pockmarked with holes, and lying there on the ground, it resembled one of the sinkhole clusters outside. The slugs had attacked it for some reason. 
Many possibilities ran through her mind, and she raised her pistol as she stepped through the doorway. Her right arm, what remained of it, no longer hurt. Just a dull ache. Either she was going into shock, or her brain had somehow shut off the receptors to that part of her body. Regardless, it was a bad sign. Even if she made it out of here, her arm would be useless. She wondered if the company would buy her a cyberlimb as compensation. 
She heard a hollow, cynical laugh from somewhere, then realized it was her own. She was burning up. The coolsuit's temperature controls had shut down when she'd ripped the arm off, breaking the seal, and now sweat ran down her face, stinging her eyes. 
Her mind focused with remarkable speed when she almost tripped over Raynolds's body inside the doorway. 
He was unrecognizable, torn and shredded to a pulp. But it was a human body, fallen probably at the spot where he'd spoken his last words, that call to base Illyana had overheard while talking to Dan. 
The cracks she'd seen from outside were in this biosphere, but it was the other side that spoke volumes. It was almost completely destroyed. Shards of shattered diffuser screen lay everywhere. The plants of the miniature ecosystem, so carefully arranged to replicate rainforest conditions, were trampled and ruined. Several larger trees had been ripped out by their roots. 
She glanced down, checking for more slugs, and realized that whatever had done this, it was no stampede of wild animals. The floor tiles weren't just scored by deep claw marks. They also bore burn marks, serrated spines embedded in the surface, and a halo of trampled debris. It was all familiar enough to tighten a knot in her stomach. 
Around a corner, behind a raised section of forest vine, something flashed in the shadows. Illyana approached, treading softly. Unconsciously she flanked around the other side to take a more covered approach, keeping her back to one of the few standing sections of geodesic. The scent of something rotten assaulted her nose. She quietly popped the oxygen tubes out of her nostrils, just enough to be able to smell properly, and immediately pushed them back in. The smell was rank, a concoction of putrefaction and sharp acid. 
Her breath caught in her throat as she rounded the corner. A seething, broiling mass of membranous flesh obscured the floor, simultaneously rotting and living. It gave off clouds of noxious vapor that drifted up and out through the wrecked dome. 
And in the center, turning to face her, was a creature that might, once, have been a zantar slug. Now it was twice the size, its brown flesh hardening to a carapace punctuated by vivid, pulsing purple membranes. 
It didn't move, but Illyana did, slowly backing away. She found what she was looking for in the first biosphere, a container of viscous brown liquid, undamaged by fire. She took it back to the slug dome and rested it on the floor near the rotting flesh-matter, to break the seal with her good hand. 
Getting back up, she threw the liquid at the evolving slug in the center, drew her P220, and fired a single blast at the spreading vine sap. 
It ignited with a bright flash and spread, emitting choking black fumes that made her back off, stumbling through the vines and uprooted trees. She turned to run, and through the broken dome shell glimpsed a vast, dark shape outside, in a nearby recess of the mountain. She didn't get a good look — too dark, too distant, and she wasn't hanging around — but she recognized the behemoth instantly. 
The claw marks, the discarded spines, the mutating zantar slug... they could all have been coincidence. But now there was no doubt. 
The zerg had returned. And they had come to Garxxax in force. 
The zerg ripped through the acid-weakened door as if it were wet paper. Brach turned and fired, killing four zerglings before he heard the next door hiss open. 
"Brach, move!" Lee shouted, envying him his helmet as her unprotected ears rang from the gunfire. She was already through the next door, her hand poised over the lock pad. Brach ran through, ducking as Lee hit the emergency close button. Two more bulkheads to cross. 
They made it through the next before the zerg broke down the door behind them, and Brach breathed a sigh of relief. They were getting some safe distance between them and their pursuers. 
"Captain, we're ready to roll. What's your twenty?" the pilot's voice barked in Lee's headset. 
"Entering hangar now," she said. "Stand by." 
The final door opened, revealing the hangar bay. It was empty but for Brach's wrecked banshee and the final medivac, packed with marines, its boarding ramp open and waiting. Lee and Brach were the last to leave. The medivac's engines roared, the pilot holding the throttle just above idle, itching to fire them and get the hell out. 
They ran across the hangar, Lee in front, sprinting for all she was worth. Brach could easily have overtaken her with the powered servos in his CMC, but instead he moved slowly, covering their rear. As they closed on the boarding ramp, Lee heard a dull crunch, barely audible over the engines, from somewhere behind. She looked over her shoulder as two auxiliary entrance doors smashed open, and hydralisks and roaches rushed into the bay. 
Brach saw them, raised his rifle, and opened fire. "Keep going," he shouted into his helmet comm. "I'll cover you!" 
She fought the impulse to turn around and go back. Brach was right; she wasn't equipped for combat, and in his suit he could make it to the ship in just a few seconds. But she knew him, knew the kind of risks he took. "No," she shouted, still running. "Get to the ramp! We can make it before they reach us!" 
Brach seemed to ignore her, and unleashed a volley of rifle fire at the hydralisks, killing two. But then he began walking backwards, firing short bursts. Zerg bodies piled up, blocking the corridor and leaving the zerg behind them struggling to push through. "I'm just making sure," he said. "Now get on board! I'm right behind you!" 
She knew that was a lie, but clambered onto the boarding ramp anyway before finally looking back. "I'm in! Get your wrinkled ass over here, soldier!" 
Brach started jogging to the ramp, turning occasionally to fire at the zerg. He fired one last volley on the roaches before leaping at the ramp, but he'd wasted too much time. They were closer than he'd estimated. The front roach rose up on its front legs and opened its maw, vomiting a stream of acid as Brach landed on the ramp. It hit him above the right knee, knocking him off-balance. He collapsed on his stomach beside Lee, and she watched in horror as his neosteel armor smoked and dissolved before her eyes. 
Brach screamed in pain, but even with his helmet mike, Lee could barely hear him above the engines. He writhed in agony, flailing his arms, and accidentally pinned Lee to the floor of the ramp. She struggled under the weight of his suit to reach around her belt, twisting her shoulder to find a grenade. Something popped inside her shoulder joint, but there was no pain. Her fingers closed around the smooth, cold, hi-ex pebble. She wrenched her arm back out, up, and under, releasing it. 
"Go! Go! Close the ramp!" she shouted into her headset. The grenade arced through the air, catching sunlight through the open hangar. It landed in the ragged mouth of the roach that had hit Brach. 
Lee watched the zerg explode through the thin slit between ramp and hull as it closed. Two marines wrestled Brach onto his back while another shouted something at the pilot. The engines spun up to full burn. The medivac rose off the ground, turned ninety degrees, and blasted the zerg with its exhausts as it soared away. 
Brach, still flat on the floor, turned his head to Lee and raised his visor. He smiled, winced at the pain, then smiled again. 
"Always said we were a good match." 
Dannion watched in horror and resignation as the last biosphere went offline. The evac ship was still thirty minutes out. He wondered if the central base would last that long. If they lost power, the ship would have to rely on manual coordinates to find them and land, but the mountainous rainforest terrain would make that tricky. There was one suitable spot nearby: the same place used to land the transports that had brought them, and the lab, to Garxxax. But after six months of disuse the rainforest was reclaiming the area, and identifying it from above would be difficult. Especially with a heavy storm rolling in from the west. 
Dannion's last contact with Jorres had been an hour ago, when he urged her to return. Since then he'd been unable to raise her. But there was nothing more he could do for now. He entered the central lounge area, where Callins and the other staff were gathered. Two were missing. 
"Hey, where are Hesken and Dirthiss?" 
Callins scowled at him. "Still packing in their dorms. It's fine; we have time." 
Everyone else sat around the room, drinking and chatting. Most were complaining. Some of them eyed Dannion warily. They'd argued earlier about the blackouts, and Hesken had even accused him and Jorres of overreacting to what was "clearly a comms issue." Dannion had mentioned Jorres's report, that sphere three was completely destroyed, but Hesken had shrugged it off. Maybe a tree had collapsed, or a rock had tumbled down the mountain. Maybe a rogue meteor had just happened to make landfall on the sphere's location. 
Not all the scientists were complaining. Some had never done an isolated tour like this before, and were going a little stir-crazy. But the loss of research hit all of them, even Dannion. He was originally a physicist, and had been using his spare time to perform some deep-space radio wave analysis. He'd downloaded as much data as possible, but since the comms system itself had started going haywire, data corruption had been a problem. For all he knew, the data would be useless when they returned to Korhal. One more casualty. 
A crashing sound broke his train of thought. "The hell was that?" 
Callins waved in the direction of Hesken's dorm. "Hesken probably saw his own shadow and dropped his flight case." A few scientists laughed. Hesken was notoriously nervy, and the evac order had understandably made him even more frantic. 
Then, a second crash. Dannion started walking across the room, weaving around luggage and chairs. Before he reached the corridor leading to Hesken's dorm, his personal comm sounded. 
"...To base... Jorres... Dan, you there?" 
The line was fraught with static, but it was good to hear her voice. "Illyana, where are you? I've been trying to raise you for the past hour." 
"Not good, Dan... sphere was completely... zerg, I'm sure... trying to reach you..." 
The crashing sounds from Hesken's dorm now combined with another noise. The screams of panicking men fighting for their lives. 
Dannion shouted at the other scientists, "Shit, they're here! Head for the armory! Everybody run!" He spun round, trying to remember the direction of the "armory," which was little more than a cupboard stocked with a half-dozen pistols. They wouldn't do much 
good if Illyana was right, and he couldn't be a hundred percent accurate that he'd heard her correctly... 
It turned out not to matter. 
Dannion, Callins, and all the other scientists stood frozen to the spot, gaping openmouthed at the massive numbers of zerg breaking through the base corridors, into the lounge area, to surround and overwhelm them. 
It wouldn't take long. 
The medivac landing was rough. The Victory's bay was already full with its own complement of medivacs. The addition of Krakulv's fleet had maxed out their available space. 
But any landing you could walk away from was good enough. The marines began disembarking, greeted by those who'd come up earlier. A medical crew rushed over, ready to take Brach and several other injured marines into emergency surgery. Lee would follow soon. But not yet. 
Instead, she threw open the medivac cockpit door and grabbed the pilot's headset. 
"Captain, this is Major Treicher." 
"Welcome aboard, Major. Your boys already told me you're the last —" 
"Shut up and listen. Take her up, right now. Do you hear me? We have to clear low-level orbit!" 
"No can do, Major. We have orders to cleanse Krakulv Base with nukes before 
returning to station." 
"What the hell do you think we were doing down there, cutting it fine for some laughs?" 
"...Oh. Copy that." 
The terrans had gone, fled like the cowards they were, and abandoned their precious 
base. The Kerrigan scanned through her zerg's eyes, assembling a patchwork panorama of the 
terrans' leavings. Much of the tech was old or useless to the zerg, and no biowork had been 
detected anywhere in the base. But that was logical; this was a warning station. Their 
primary sustenance would be intelligence. 
The zerglings spread out, swarming throughout the base, every square foot to be noted 
and marked. The mutalisks did the same over the base's exterior. The Kerrigan would leave 
nothing to chance. 
Hydralisks and roaches moved onward through the base, to the nerve center. If there 
was any useful human intel on the dead moon, it would be here. The Kerrigan sent the lead 
roaches to excrete their way through the blast doors, opening them into a hive of light and 
sound that hummed with activity, an electrostatic ghost soul playing out forever in forlorn 
hope of the humans' return. 
The first roach detected heat as it scurried through the liquefied remains of the door. 
The Kerrigan registered the sense, but it seemed inconsequential until more zerg began 
feeling the same thing. 
Flames spread across the walls of the nerve center, moving outward from where the 
blast door had been. A singular scent stirred all of the roaches as one, awakening a dim 
ancestral group-memory of humid jungles, proud mountains, and exotic vine sap. 
Flames rippled along the ceiling. The light wavelength altered, shifting towards 
infrared. A fast-oscillating wave of sound filled the space. 
Deep inside the dead moon of Krakulv, systems hummed to life. 
The line to Dannion had cut out seconds after Illyana heard the screams, and she knew it wasn't because of a bad connection. 
She'd seen their tracks as she escaped the wrecked dome of biosphere three. She'd heard their distant movements as she collected jars of vine sap in a box. She'd heard the explosions from other biospheres as she frantically drove the jeep away one-handed, while one of Garxxax's characteristic tropical storms rumbled awake overhead. 
Her wounded arm hung limp and useless by her side. And it looked even worse now, as if the acid was somehow spreading. With every movement of the jeep, pain jabbed her chest, even though she was sticking to the dirt track. Was it the acid, or just the pain and exertion of trying to make it back to the base? She didn't know, didn't care. 
Five minutes earlier she'd glimpsed a hydralisk in the rear mirror, lurching out of the rainforest, as she rounded a corner. There had been no sign since, so she figured it hadn't noticed her. 
Wrong. Trees splintered into fragments as a zergling crashed out of the forest and slammed into the jeep's hood. She yelped involuntarily and tried to swerve, but the heavy rains had turned the dirt track into a mud bath, and the jeep's fender smashed into its bulky, chitinous body. A panel of neosteel came away, sailing overhead to land on the track behind. The vehicle lurched down as one of the front axles buckled under the impact. 
It was still moving, though. Still working. Smoke rose from the base's position in the valley, obscuring the base itself. But she'd seen what the zerg did to terran bases and structures plenty of times during the war. 
The jeep staggered another hundred meters before something hit the rear with a heavy thump. She had time to glance in the mirror, and see a column of zerglings pursuing her, before the rear end slammed into the ground, dragging steel through the mud and pulling the jeep towards the forest. 
She leapt out before it smashed into a tree at the side of the track. She landed on her bad arm, and screamed in pain as what remained of the bones snapped and shattered. 
But she forced herself up, and dragged the crate of jars out of the jeep. Many had smashed on impact, but some were intact. She checked the width of the track, figured the distance of the advancing zerg, and reckoned she had enough to make a wall of fire deep enough to hold them back... if the rain didn't extinguish the fire too quickly. If the storm passed, it might even spread into the forest and slow them down enough for her to reach the base. 
Or it might fry her to a crisp. But she was going down anyway; that was pretty damn certain. She'd take as many of the bastards with her as possible. 
She removed the first jar from the crate... and looked up in surprise at the sound of engines roaring above her. A planet-hopper broke through the cloud layer, starting its descent towards the base. Even marine pilots should be able to find that column of smoke, she thought with a smirk. 
The pilot managed to get through on the comm channel, although the line was filled with static. "Garxxax Base... planet-hopper evac... First Lieutenant Treicher. We... visual, 
please..." 
"Evac ship, this is First Security Officer Illyana Jorres! The base is down — I repeat, down! I'm the sole survivor, half a klick away on a dirt track! Look for the goddamn advancing zerg! Do you read me?" 
A pause on the line. The zerg drew closer to her position. 
"Roger... Officer Lee... breaking up... Scanning now for... Stand by." 
Illyana sighed. The pilot had only heard half her message, and name, through the static. But at least he'd heard her. Now all she had to do was survive long enough for them to land... 
She threw the jar of sap at the advancing zerg, and fired her P220. 
She watched the rear view on a landing bay monitor as medics strapped Brach to a gurney. 
Krakulv trembled, then exploded in a bright flash of nuclear heat. Vaporized. 
"Whoa," said one of the medics. "Did... did you do that? That's cutting it damn close." 
"We drilled nukes into the core when the base was built. I couldn't risk a countdown that might miss, so I rigged it up to the incendiary alarms. Then all we had to do was wait for the zerg to start a fire." 
"Since when do zerg use incendiaries?" 
Lee smiled. "Well, we helped them out. I keep a little souvenir in our trophy cabinet, a jar of sap from — Look, never mind. It worked." 
Brach's grip on her hand tightened. "Heh... goddamn... slugs." 
Lee squeezed his hand in return. "Yeah. I know." She turned to the medics, and gestured at Brach's leg. "Now listen, this is a roach hit. The acid contains viroids that propagate through the nervous system, and a standard nanoscab just exacerbates the process. The only way to neutralize infection is put the whole leg in an alkali bath, shoot it up with bacteriophage virals, then clean and assess." She paused. "But honestly, you'll probably still have to amputate. 
The medic gaped in disbelief at her frankness. "Uh, ma'am... thanks and all, but could we discuss this in private?" 
Brach managed a thin-lipped smile. "She's my wife... you bozo. And she knows more... about roach wounds than... your professors ever taught you... Show him, honey." 
Brach let go of Lee's hand. She held it up in front of the medic's face, palm out, and pulled off her glove. He gasped at the neosteel plating, the endoskeletal nerve clusters, the soft glow of status lights. 
"A cyberlimb." 
"Right up to the shoulder. Give you one guess how I lost it." 
Brach laughed, coughed, hacked up phlegm, and took hold of Lee's hand again. She walked alongside his gurney while the medics wheeled it through the ship's corridors. "Like I said... a good match." 
"I'll be right here, Brachyan." She squeezed his hand. "I guess that's two I owe you." 
Brach smiled. "Ever get that... sense of déjà vu, Illyana?" 
She held on tight as they entered sick bay. 