'Yes, to Mordor,' said Gandalf. 'Alas! Mordor draws all wicked things, and the Dark Power was
bending all its will to gather them there. The Ring of the Enemy would leave its mark, too, leave
him open to the summons. And all folk were whispering then of the new Shadow in the South, and
its hatred of the West. There were his fine new friends, who would help him in his revenge!
 'Wretched fool! In that land he would learn much, too much for his comfort. And sooner or later
as he lurked and pried on the borders he would be caught, and taken – for examination. That was
the way of it, I fear. When he was found he had already been there long, and was on his way back.
On some errand of mischief. But that does not matter much now. His worst mischief was done.
 'Yes, alas! through him the Enemy has learned that the One has been found again. He knows
where Isildur fell. He knows where Gollum found his ring. He knows that it is a Great Ring, for it
gave long life. He knows that it is not one of the Three, for they have never been lost, and they
endure no evil. He knows that it is not one of the Seven, or the Nine, for they are accounted for. He
knows that it is the One. And he has at last heard, I think, of _hobbits_ and the _Shire._
 'The Shire – he may be seeking for it now, if he has not already found out where it lies. Indeed,
Frodo, I fear that he may even think that the long-unnoticed name of _Baggins_ has become
important.' 'But this is terrible!' cried Frodo. 'Far worse than the worst that I imagined from your hints and
warnings. O Gandalf, best of friends, what am I to do? For now I am really afraid. What am I to
do? What a pity that Bilbo did not stab that vile creature, when he had a chance!'
 'Pity? It was Pity that stayed his hand. Pity, and Mercy: not to strike without need. And he has
been well rewarded, Frodo. Be sure that he took so little hurt from the evil, and escaped in the end,
because he began his ownership of the Ring so. With Pity.'
 'I am sorry,' said Frodo. 'But I am frightened; and I do not feel any pity for Gollum.'
 'You have not seen him,' Gandalf broke in.
 'No, and I don't want to,' said Frodo. I can't understand you. Do you mean to say that you, and
the Elves, have let him live on after all those horrible deeds? Now at any rate he is as bad as an Orc,
and just an enemy. He deserves death.'
 'Deserves it! I daresay he does. Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life.
Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death in judgement. For even the very
wise cannot see all ends. I have not much hope that Gollum can be cured before he dies, but there is
a chance of it. And he is bound up with the fate of the Ring. My heart tells me that he has some part
to play yet, for good or ill, before the end; and when that comes, the pity of Bilbo may rule the fate
of many – yours not least. In any case we did not kill him: he is very old and very wretched. The
Wood-elves have him in prison, but they treat him with such kindness as they can find in their wise
hearts.'
 'All the same,' said Frodo, 'even if Bilbo could not kill Gollum, I wish he had not kept the Ring.
I wish he had never found it, and that I had not got it! Why did you let me keep it? Why didn't you
make me throw it away, or, or destroy it?'
 'Let you? Make you?' said the wizard. 'Haven't you been listening to all that I have said? You are
not thinking of what you are saying. But as for throwing it away, that was obviously wrong. These
Rings have a way of being found. In evil hands it might have done great evil. Worst of all, it might
have fallen into the hands of the Enemy. Indeed it certainly would; for this is the One, and he is
exerting all his power to find it or draw it to himself.
 'Of course, my dear Frodo, it was dangerous for you; and that has troubled me deeply. But there
was so much at stake that I had to take some risk – though even when I was far away there has
never been a day when the Shire has not been guarded by watchful eyes. As long as you never used
it, I did not think that the Ring would have any lasting effect on you, not for evil, not at any rate for
a very long time. And you must remember that nine years ago, when I last saw you, I still knew
little for certain.' After some time they crossed the Water, west of Hobbiton, by a narrow plank-bridge. The
stream was there no more than a winding black ribbon, bordered with leaning alder-trees. A mile or
two further south they hastily crossed the great road from the Brandywine Bridge; they were now in
the Tookland and bending south-eastwards they made for the Green Hill Country. As they began to
climb its first slopes they looked back and saw the lamps in Hobbiton far off twinkling in the gentle
valley of the Water. Soon it disappeared in the folds of the darkened land, and was followed by
Bywater beside its grey pool. When the light of the last farm was far behind, peeping among the
trees, Frodo turned and waved a hand in farewell.
 'I wonder if I shall ever look down into that valley again,' he said quietly.
 When they had walked for about three hours they rested. The night was clear, cool, and starry,
but smoke-like wisps of mist were creeping up the hill-sides from the streams and deep meadows.
Thin-clad birches, swaying in a light wind above their heads, made a black net against the pale sky.
They ate a very frugal supper (for hobbits), and then went on again. Soon they struck a narrow
road, that went rolling up and down, fading grey into the darkness ahead: the road to Woodhall, and
Stock, and the Bucklebury Ferry. It climbed away from the main road in the Water-valley, and
wound over the skirts of the Green Hills towards Woody-End, a wild corner of the Eastfarthing.
 After a while they plunged into a deeply cloven track between tall trees that rustled their dry
leaves in the night. It was very dark. At first they talked, or hummed a tune softly together, being
now far away from inquisitive ears. Then they marched on in silence, and Pippin began to lag
behind. At last, as they began to climb a steep slope, he stopped and yawned.
 'I am so sleepy,' he said, 'that soon I shall fall down on the road. Are you going to sleep on your
legs? It is nearly midnight.'
 'I thought you liked walking in the dark,' said Frodo. 'But there is no great hurry. Merry expects
us some time the day after tomorrow; but that leaves us nearly two days more. We'll halt at the first
likely spot.'
 'The wind's in the West,' said Sam. 'If we get to the other side of this hill, we shall find a spot
that is sheltered and snug enough, sir. There is a dry fir-wood just ahead, if I remember rightly.'
Sam knew the land well within twenty miles of Hobbiton, but that was the limit of his geography.
 Just over the top of the hill they came on the patch of fir-wood. Leaving the road they went into
the deep resin-scented darkness of the trees, and gathered dead sticks and cones to make a fire.
Soon they had a merry crackle of flame at the foot of a large fir-tree and they sat round it for a
while, until they began to nod. Then, each in an angle of the great tree's roots, they curled up in
their cloaks and blankets, and were soon fast asleep. They set no watch; even Frodo feared no
danger yet, for they were still in the heart of the Shire. A few creatures came and looked at them
when the fire had died away. A fox passing through the wood on business of his own stopped
several minutes and sniffed.
 'Hobbits!' he thought. 'Well, what next? I have heard of strange doings in this land, but I have
seldom heard of a hobbit sleeping out of doors under a tree. Three of them! There's something
mighty queer behind this.' He was quite right, but he never found out any more about it.
 The morning came, pale and clammy. Frodo woke up first, and found that a tree-root had made
a hole in his back, and that his neck was stiff. 'Walking for pleasure! Why didn't I drive?' he thought, as he usually did at the beginning of an
expedition. 'And all my beautiful feather beds are sold to the Sackville-Bagginses! These tree-roots
would do them good.' He stretched. 'Wake up, hobbits!' he cried. It's a beautiful morning.'
 'What's beautiful about it?' said Pippin, peering over the edge of his blanket with one eye. 'Sam!
Gel breakfast ready for half-past nine! Have you got the bath-water hot?'
 Sam jumped up, looking rather bleary. 'No, sir, I haven't, sir!' he said.
 Frodo stripped the blankets from Pippin and rolled him over, and then walked off to the edge of
the wood. Away eastward the sun was rising red out of the mists that lay thick on the world.
Touched with gold and red the autumn trees seemed to be sailing rootless in a shadowy sea. A little
below him to the left the road ran down steeply into a hollow and disappeared.
 When he returned Sam and Pippin had got a good fire going. 'Water!' shouted Pippin. 'Where's
the water?'
 'I don't keep water in my pockets,' said Frodo. 'We thought you had gone to find some,' said
Pippin, busy setting out the food, and cups. 'You had better go now.'
 'You can come too,' said Frodo, 'and bring all the water-bottles.' There was a stream at the foot
of the hill. They filled their bottles and the small camping kettle at a little fall where the water fell a
few feet over an outcrop of grey stone. It was icy cold; and they spluttered and puffed as they
bathed their faces and hands.
 When their breakfast was over, and their packs all trussed up again, it was after ten o'clock, and
the day was beginning to turn fine and hot. They went down the slope, and across the stream where
it dived under the road, and up the next slope, and up and down another shoulder of the hills; and
by that time their cloaks, blankets, water, food, and other gear already seemed a heavy burden.
 The day's march promised to be warm and tiring work. After some miles, however, the road
ceased to roll up and down: it climbed to the top of a steep bank in a weary zig-zagging sort of way,
and then prepared to go down for the last time. In front of them they saw the lower lands dotted
with small clumps of trees that melted away in the distance to a brown woodland haze. They were
looking across the Woody End towards the Brandywine River. The road wound away before them
like a piece of string.
 'The road goes on for ever,' said Pippin; 'but I can't without a rest. It is high time for lunch.' He
sat down on the bank at the side of the road and looked away east into the haze, beyond which lay
the River, and the end of the Shire in which he had spent all his life. Sam stood by him. His round
eyes were wide open – for he was looking across lands he had never seen to a new horizon.
 'Do Elves live in those woods?' he asked.
 'Not that I ever heard,' said Pippin. Frodo was silent. He too was gazing eastward along the road,
as if he had never seen it before. Suddenly he spoke, aloud but as if to himself, saying slowly: The hoofs drew nearer. They had no time to find any hiding-place better than the general
darkness under the trees; Sam and Pippin crouched behind a large tree-bole, while Frodo crept back
a few yards towards the lane. It showed grey and pale, a line of fading light through the wood.
Above it the stars were thick in the dim sky, but there was no moon.
 The sound of hoofs stopped. As Frodo watched he saw something dark pass across the lighter
space between two trees, and then halt. It looked like the black shade of a horse led by a smaller
black shadow. The black shadow stood close to the point where they had left the path, and it
swayed from side to side. Frodo thought he heard the sound of snuffling. The shadow bent to the
ground, and then began to crawl towards him.
 Once more the desire to slip on the Ring came over Frodo; but this time it was stronger than
before. So strong that, almost before he realized what he was doing, his hand was groping in his
pocket. But at that moment there came a sound like mingled song and laughter. Clear voices rose
and fell in the starlit air. The black shadow straightened up and retreated. It climbed on to the
shadowy horse and seemed to vanish across the lane into the darkness on the other side. Frodo
breathed again.
 'Elves!' exclaimed Sam in a hoarse whisper. 'Elves, sir!' He would have burst out of the trees and
dashed off towards the voices, if they had not pulled him back.
 'Yes, it is Elves,' said Frodo. 'One can meet them sometimes in the Woody End. They don't live
in the Shire, but they wander into it in Spring and Autumn, out of their own lands away beyond the
Tower Hills. I am thankful that they do! You did not see, but that Black Rider stopped just here and
was actually crawling towards us when the song began. As soon as he heard the voices he slipped
away.'
 'What about the Elves?' said Sam, too ex w that they had, in fact, turned too much to the south. Away over the flats they could glimpse the
low hill of Bucklebury across the River, but it was now to their left. Creeping cautiously out from
the edge of the trees, they set off across the open as quickly as they could.
 At first they felt afraid, away from the shelter of the wood. Far back behind them stood the high
place where they had breakfasted. Frodo half expected to see the small distant figure of a horseman
on the ridge dark against the sky; but there was no sign of one. The sun escaping from the breaking
clouds, as it sank towards the hills they had left, was now shining brightly again. Their fear left
them, though they still felt uneasy. But the land became steadily more tame and well-ordered. Soon
they came into well-tended fields and meadows: there were hedges and gates and dikes for
drainage. Everything seemed quiet and peaceful, just an ordinary corner of the Shire. Their spirits
rose with every step. The line of the River grew nearer; and the Black Riders began to seem like
phantoms of the woods now left far behind.
 They passed along the edge of a huge turnip-field, and came to a stout gate. Beyond it a rutted
lane ran between low well-laid hedges towards a distant clump of trees. Pippin stopped.
 'I know these fields and this gate!' he said. 'This is Bamfurlong, old Farmer Maggot's land.
That's his farm away there in the trees.'
 'One trouble after another!' said Frodo, looking nearly as much alarmed as if Pippin had declared
the lane was the slot leading to a dragon's den. The others looked at him in surprise.
 'What's wrong with old Maggot?' asked Pippin. 'He's a good friend to all the Brandy bucks. Of
course he's a terror to trespassers, and keeps ferocious dogs – but after all, folk down here are near
the border and have to be more on their guard.'
 'I know,' said Frodo. 'But all the same,' he added with a shamefaced laugh, 'I am terrified of him
and his dogs. I have avoided his farm for years and years. He caught me several times trespassing
after mushrooms, when I was a youngster at Brandy Hall. On the last occasion he beat me, and then
took me and showed me to his dogs. "See, lads," he said, "next time this young varmint sets foot on
my land, you can eat him. Now see him off!" They chased me all the way to the Ferry. I have never
got over the fright – though I daresay the beasts knew their business and would not really have
touched me.'
 Pippin laughed. 'Well, it's time you made it up. Especially if you are coming back to live in
Buckland. Old Maggot is really a stout fellow – if you leave his mushrooms alone. Let's get into the
lane and then we shan't be trespassing. If we meet him, I'll do the talking. He is a friend of Merry's,
and I used to come here with him a good deal at one time.'
 They went along the lane, until they saw the thatched roofs of a large house and farm-buildings
peeping out among the trees ahead. The Maggots, and the Puddifoots of Stock, and most of the
inhabitants of the Marish, were house-dwellers; and this farm was stoutly built of brick and had a
high wall all round it. There was a wide wooden gate opening out of the wall into the lane.
 Suddenly as they drew nearer a terrific baying and barking broke out, and a loud voice was
heard shouting: 'Grip! Fang! Wolf! Come on, lads!'
 Frodo and Sam stopped dead, but Pippin walked on a few paces. The gate opened and three
huge dogs came pelting out into the lane, and dashed towards the travellers, barking fiercely. They
took no notice of Pippin; but Sam shrank against the wall, while two wolvish-looking dogs sniffed
at him suspiciously, and snarled if he moved. The largest and most ferocious of the three halted in
front of Frodo, bristling and growling.
 Through the gate there now appeared a broad thick-set hobbit with a round red face. 'Hallo!
Hallo! And who may you be, and what may you be wanting?' he asked.
 'Good afternoon, Mr. Maggot!' said Pippin.
 The farmer looked at him closely. 'Well, if it isn't Master Pippin – Mr. Peregrin Took, I should
say!' he cried, changing from a scowl to a grin. 'It's a long time since I saw you round here. It's
lucky for you that I know you. I was just going out to set my dogs on any strangers. There are some
Are the stories about it true?' asked Pippin.
 'I don't know what stories you mean,' Merry answered. 'If you mean the old bogey-stories Fatty's
nurses used to tell him, about goblins and wolves and things of that sort, I should say no. At any
rate I don't believe them. But the Forest _is_ queer. Everything in it is very much more alive, more
aware of what is going on, so to speak, than things are in the Shire. And the trees do not like
strangers. They watch you. They are usually content merely to watch you, as long as daylight lasts,
and don't do much. Occasionally the most unfriendly ones may drop a branch, or stick a root out, or
grasp at you with a long trailer. But at night things can be most alarming, or so I am told. I have
only once or twice been in here after dark, and then only near the hedge. I thought all the trees were
whispering to each other, passing news and plots along in an unintelligible language; and the
branches swayed and groped without any wind. They do say the trees do actually move, and can
surround strangers and hem them in. In fact long ago they attacked the Hedge: they came and
planted themselves right by it, and leaned over it. But the hobbits came and cut down hundreds of
trees, and made a great bonfire in the Forest, and burned all the ground in a long strip east of the
Hedge. After that the trees gave up the attack, but they became very unfriendly. There is still a wide
bare space not far inside where the bonfire was made.'
 'Is it only the trees that are dangerous?' asked Pippin.
 'There are various queer things living deep in the Forest, and on the far side,' said Merry, 'or at
least I have heard so; but I have never seen any of them. But something makes paths. Whenever
one comes inside one finds open tracks; but they seem to shift and change from time to time in a
queer fashion. Not far from this tunnel there is, or was for a long time, the beginning of quite a
broad path leading to the Bonfire Glade, and then on more or less in our direction, east and a little
north. That is the path I am going to try and find.'
 The hobbits now left the tunnel-gate and rode across the wide hollow. On the far side was a faint
path leading up on to the floor of the Forest, a hundred yards and more beyond the Hedge; but it
vanished as soon as it brought them under the trees. Looking back they could see the dark line of
the Hedge through the stems of trees that were already thick about them. Looking ahead they could
see only tree-trunks of innumerable sizes and shapes: straight or bent, twisted, leaning, squat or
slender, smooth or gnarled and branched; and all the stems were green or grey with moss and
slimy, shaggy growths.
 Merry alone seemed fairly cheerful. 'You had better lead on and find that path,' Frodo said to
him. 'Don't let us lose one another, or forget which way the Hedge lies!'
 They picked a way among the trees, and their ponies plodded along, carefully avoiding the many
writhing and interlacing roots. There was no undergrowth. The ground was rising steadily, and as
they went forward it seemed that the trees became taller, darker, and thicker. There was no sound,
except an occasional drip of moisture falling through the still leaves. For the moment there was no suddenly felt that he could not bear it any longer, and without warning let out a shout. 'Oi! Oi!' he
cried. 'I am not going to do anything. Just let me pass through, will you!'
 The others halted startled; but the cry fell as if muffled by a heavy curtain. There was no echo or
answer though the wood seemed to become more crowded and more watchful than before.
 'I should not shout, if I were you,' said Merry. It does more harm than good.'
 Frodo began to wonder if it were possible to find a way through, and if he had been right to
make the others come into this abominable wood. Merry was looking from side to side, and seemed
already uncertain which way to go. Pippin noticed it. 'It has not taken you long to lose us,' he said.
But at that moment Merry gave a whistle of relief and pointed ahead.
 'Well, well!' he said. 'These trees _do_ shift. There is the Bonfire Glade in front of us (or I hope
so), but the path to it seems to have moved away!'
 The light grew clearer as they went forward. Suddenly they came out of the trees and found
themselves in a wide circular space. There was sky above them, blue and clear to their surprise, for
down under the Forest-roof they had not been able to see the rising morning and the lifting of the
mist. The sun was not, however, high enough yet to shine down into the clearing, though its light
was on the tree-tops. The leaves were all thicker and greener about the edges of the glade,
enclosing it with an almost solid wall. No tree grew there, only rough grass and many tall plants:
stalky and faded hemlocks and wood-parsley, fire-weed seeding into fluffy ashes, and rampant
nettles and thistles. A dreary place: but it seemed a charming and cheerful garden after the close
Forest.
 The hobbits felt encouraged, and look He spoke cheerfully, and if he felt any great anxiety, he did not show it. The others did not
answer. They were depressed. A heavy weight was settling steadily on Frodo's heart, and he
regretted now with every step forward that he had ever thought of challenging the menace of the
trees. He was, indeed, just about to stop and propose going back (if that was still possible), when
things took a new turn. The path stopped climbing, and became for a while nearly level. The dark
trees drew aside, and ahead they could see the path going almost straight forward. Before them, but
some distance off, there stood a green hill-top, treeless, rising like a bald head out of the encircling
wood. The path seemed to be making directly for it.
 They now hurried forward again, delighted with the thought of climbing out for a while above
the roof of the Forest. The path dipped, and then again began to climb upwards, leading them at last
to the foot of the steep hillside. There it left the trees and faded into the turf. The wood stood all
round the hill like thick hair that ended sharply in a circle round a shaven crown.
 The hobbits led their ponies up, winding round and round until they reached the top. There they
stood and gazed about them. The air was gleaming and sunlit, but hazy; and they could not see to
any great distance. Near at hand the mist was now almost gone; though here and there it lay in
hollows of the wood, and to the south of them, out of a deep fold cutting right across the Forest, the
fog still rose like steam or wisps of white smoke.
 'That,' said Merry, pointing with his hand, 'that is the line of the Withywindle. It comes down
out of the Downs and flows south-west through the midst of the Forest to join the Brandywine
below Haysend. We don't want to go _that_ way! The Withywindle valley is said to be the queerest
part of the whole wood – the centre from which all the queerness comes, as it were.'
 The others looked in the direction that Merry pointed out, but they could see little but mists over
the damp and deep-cut valley; and beyond it the southern half of the Forest faded from view.
 The sun on the hill-lop was now getting hot. It must have been about eleven o'clock; but the
autumn haze still prevented them from seeing much in other directions. In the west they could not
make out either the line of the Hedge or the valley of the Brandywine beyond it. Northward, where
they looked most hopefully, they could see nothing that might be the line of the great East Road,
for which they were making. They were on an island in a sea of trees, and the horizon was veiled.
 On the south-eastern side the ground fell very steeply, as if the slopes of the hill were continued
far down under the trees, like island-shores that really are the sides of a mountain rising out of deep
waters. They sat on the green edge and looked out over the woods below them, while they ate their
mid-day meal. As the sun rose and passed noon they glimpsed far off in the east the grey-green
lines of the Downs that lay beyond the Old Forest on that side. That cheered them greatly; for it
was good to see a sight of anything beyond the wood's borders, though they did not mean to go that
way, if hey could help it: the Barrow-downs had as sinister a reputation in hobbit-legend as the
Forest itself.
 At length they made up their minds to go on again. The path that had brought them to the hill
reappeared on the northward side; but they had not followed it far before they became aware that it
was bending steadily to the right. Soon it began to descend rapidly and they guessed that it must
actually be heading towards the Withywindle valley: not at all the direction they wished lo take.
After some discussion they decided to leave this misleading path and strike northward; for although
they had not been able to see it from the hill-top, the Road must lie that way, and it could not be
many miles off. Also northward, and to the left of the path, the land seemed lo be drier and more
open, climbing up to slopes where the trees were thinner, and pines and firs replaced the oaks and
ashes and other strange and nameless trees of the denser wood.
 At first their choice seemed to be good: they got along at a fair speed, though whenever they got
a glimpse of the sun in an open glade they seemed unaccountably to have veered eastwards. But
after a time the trees began to close in again, just where they had appeared from a distance to bethinner and less tangled. Then deep folds in the ground were discovered unexpectedly, like the ruts
of great giant-wheels or wide moats and sunken roads long disused and choked with brambles.
These lay usually right across their line of march, and could only be crossed by scrambling down
and out again, which was troublesome and difficult with their ponies. Each time they climbed down