Acid Burns 
By Antony Johnston 
KRAKULV, 2504 
"We're not going anywhere! Man those cannons!" 
Captain Brach Treicher turned from the heavy weapons platform and broke into a run, heading for centcomm. Despite the bulk of his CMC combat suit he took the stairs three at a time, listening to the cannons spit out staccato bursts behind him. The marines had watched medivac after medivac evacuate Krakulv Base over the past hour, and naturally expected they were next. But they were staying. 
Krakulv was a secret early warning moon base on the edge of Dominion space, monitoring for zerg incursions. Maybe once, when the base was established following the First Contact War, there had been enough medivacs for everyone. But as time went on, and the base and its population grew — grew complacent, in Brach's opinion — they'd outgrown the medivacs' capacity. 
The order to evacuate all non-combat, non-essential survivors after the initial attack had come from the major, and Brach would have done the same, but it left a bitter taste in his mouth. That first wave, before lunar sunrise, had taken them by surprise. It shouldn't have. What use was a watch station that didn't detect an impending attack on itself? But it hadn't, and within ten minutes a quarter of their population was dead. So the survivors had fled, taking all but one medivac, leaving a couple hundred marines to hold off an entire zerg assault until the nearest Destroyer-class ship could reach them... 
The blast door to central command hissed open, and Brach strode through. "Do we have an ETA on that Destroyer yet?" 
Base commander Major Lee Treicher peered at her status console. "Six hours." 
"Six hours! Lee, we can't hold them off that long! Krakulv wasn't built for this kind of siege!" 
Most of the centcomm staff had evacuated, but half a dozen had stayed behind to man tactical stations, and now every one of them found something really interesting to read on their consoles. 
Lee fixed a cold gaze on Brach, and he sighed. If there was one thing about his wife that bugged him, it was this. She never lost her cool, never raised her voice in anger, even when she had every right to. Sometimes he wanted to shake her just to make her react and lose it once in a while. 
"So what should we do instead?" she said in an even tone. "Surrender? You want to wave a white flag, hope the zerg have reformed and found their inner pacifist?" 
"Counterattack. We can't just sit here and let them come at us." 
"I've got raven spotters out right now, assessing the situation. I'll determine a course of action when they send their report, not before. Now either come here and help me out, or go and shout encouraging yet abusive insults at your men." 
Brach hesitated, then stepped up beside Lee. He placed the hand of his combat suit over her gloved fingers and gently squeezed. "Sorry," he whispered. 
She gave him a lopsided smile and turned back to the console. "Take a look at these formations here..." 
GARXXAX, 2501 
One hour before high noon, Illyana Jorres closed down her security monitors. She'd finished her remote sweep of the biosphere outposts twenty minutes ago, ahead of schedule, and all was normal. As it should be — Garxxax was a tiny planet in a tiny system, on the edge of terran space and far removed from the hustle and bustle of Dominion life, with no indigenous intelligences above forest vermin. 
But that was what she'd requested when she'd joined the company. She'd seen enough action in the war, more than enough for any marine. With no other marketable skills, she had gone into freelance security and wound up here. A planet where the humidity made a trip through the mountainous rainforest unbearable without a coolsuit, and even the oceans that covered most of the globe were hot as an evening shower. 
But there was no action, no excitement. Just her, ten scientists, and the heat. It suited Illyana just fine. 
The behemoth groaned, shifting its great mass to ease the pain of battle-born wounds. 
The protoss fleet had caught it unawares, drifting through space on the sector edge, and the 
behemoth had paid the price. Now its life was draining, even though the battle was over. Its 
own life was unimportant, but it carried thousands of other zerg within its cavernous 
membranes, and they too were in danger if it perished. Moving through space was its natural 
state, but the act was not without exertion. The old behemoth needed time to recover, to 
regain energy. It could not do that in the vacuum of space. 
The Kerrigan had guided the behemoth to ultimate victory in the battle, at the price of 
its wounds. Now she looked through its tired eyes, scanning the region for a suitable resting 
place. 
There, in the system ahead. A planet with a nitrous-oxygen atmosphere, and carbon-
based life. Life that the behemoth, and the thousands of zerg carried in the cavernous 
membranes of its body, could consume to survive. To heal. The Kerrigan guided the behemoth 
towards its destination. 
After a time — an hour, a day, a week, a month? Time meant little to one so old — the 
living ship entered the planet's gravity well. The drifting clouds were thick, obscuring the 
terrain. When the behemoth broke through, it recognized some features. It had seen other 
planets like this, with mountains and trees, and green covering the land. It had rested, once, 
on a planet such as this. There would be rich proteins here, perhaps even mammalian life. 
Life. Yes! The behemoth sensed biological heat clustered below. Instinctively it adjusted 
its descent path towards the source. 
Brach watched the raven feeds come in, and sent them to Lee. They'd both fought in the First Contact War, and they knew what to expect. Zerglings, mutalisks, hydralisks... but there was something else he didn't recognize. 
"Major, what the hell are those?" 
Lee left the main console to stand beside Brach and scan the static-worn images on the feed. He pointed to a column of squat multilegged zerg scuttling over a layer of creep. 
Their wide bodies were heavily armored by a spiked carapace that hid their features from the air, and they moved in unison towards a comms dish installation two klicks from the Krakulv Base walls. 
Lee shook her head. "Never seen that unit before. But we know the zerg evolve and mutate quickly. It could be new, or even a unit we've seen before, with better—" 
The zerg column came within a quarter klick of the comms dish, and the front row rose up to unleash blasts of lurid green acid from their mouths. As they finished, the row behind them rose up and did the same. Thirty seconds later, the dish installation was a smoking pile of molten neosteel. 
"LRC-4 just went offline," shouted one of the tactical staff. 
Lee hissed through her teeth. "Roaches." 
"Are you sure? I thought they were... smaller?" 
"Obviously, they grew. Shit." Lee raced back to the main console and studied the base defense status for the hundredth time. "Our walls are still at a hundred percent, no breaches or serious damage yet. But those things will eat through them in an hour or two." 
"'Or two,' is the question. We could all be on a transport by the time they get through." 
Lee didn't reply. She looked paralyzed, indecisive. Brach hadn't seen her this nervous since their wedding, and he knew exactly why. His mind drifted to their quarters, and the trophy cabinet he'd insisted they bring with them, to remind them that even though they'd been assigned to a small, unimportant monitoring base, they were still marines who'd served with honor. But the cabinet didn't just hold medals and trophies. 
They'd also filled it with battlefield souvenirs, reminders of what they'd both been through during the war. He knew what Lee would be thinking of right now. He had to do something. 
"I'll lead an aerial squad and buy us some time." Brach saluted and turned to walk out. "Major." 
Lee looked up from the console, suddenly alert. "What? No! You know what those things can do, and these are bigger than any I've seen before. What if these ones can attack air units?" 
"So why didn't they take out the raven? That heavy armor restricts them so much, they can't look up. All I need is half a dozen banshees and coordinates from the ravens. Easy strike." 
"And when was the last time any of you took a banshee out? Six months? A year? You're as rusty as the ships, and I'm not risking more lives without good reason. Nobody goes outside the base walls... including you, Captain. Got it?" 
Brach knew Lee was serious when she called him either Captain or by his full name of Brachyan. He hated it, mostly because it made him feel like a child. She was his wife and his superior officer... but that didn't mean she was never wrong. For example, she didn't know that he and a half-dozen other vets took the banshees out for flybys every month during lunar midnight. 
"Yes, Major," he said, and left the centcomm. 
"Hey, Illyana. What's up?" Dannion Kortter spoke without looking up from the monitor. 
"Not much," she replied as the door closed behind her. "Me, you, nine eggheads, eleven fake ecosystems, and a whole lot of nothing going on. Just the way I like it." 
As if on cue, Dannion's entire console lit up, and a scratchy transmission sounded over the comms. 
"Raynolds to base. Are we expecting a storm out here?" 
Dan opened the channel. "This is base, Raynolds." He scanned the worklog rota. "I've got you in biosphere three, the slug and sap dome under the mountain. What's the problem?" 
"It's like the lights just went out. But I checked the forecast before I left base, and there 
was no sign of storms or bad fronts rolling in. Can you double-check?" 
"Sure thing, hold on." Dan called up the day's forecast and real-time patterns. "You should be clear and dry. Could it be the mountain shadow? We're closing on two in the afternoon. If the sun's going down on the other side..." 
"I'm out here twice a week, for God's sake. I know when it gets dark." 
Illyana leaned over Dannion's shoulder. "Raynolds, this is Jorres. Is it definitely clouds?" 
"How would I know? I'm in the slug dome, can't see a thing through the geodesic 
screens. And the light's getting worse in here by the second. I'm heading back to the console 
room before I need a flashlight to KRZRRZKRZKRZZZKKKK." 
The ground shook. 
"What the hell was that?" Dan jabbed at the comms, trying to reestablish the connection. 
Illyana thought the ground was still shaking, then realized it was her alert sensor, vibrating on her hip. She checked it. "Shit." 
Hesken, one of the scientists, ran into the room, panting from the brief exertion. "Earthquake?" he gasped. "I hate earthquakes. Please don't say this planet's unstable." 
Illyana pushed past him. "We don't know, but whatever it was compromised biosphere three's integrity. I just got an alert: the seal's broken, and failsafes have kicked in. Kortter, keep working on raising Raynolds." 
Data and reports scrolled over the monitors in rapid succession. Dan's eyes flicked from screen to screen, skimming everything, looking for a solution, or at least an explanation. "What about you?" 
Illyana stepped through the door without looking back. "I'm going out there." 
Six banshees screamed out of the purple sky, raining backlash rockets down on the zerg. The valley lit up with fire as Brach brought the lead craft around for another pass. 
"First strike is deadly, Major," he said into his headset. "Banshees, commence second run." 
Back at Krakulv Base, Lee fumed and clenched her fists in silence. She'd known, perhaps only subconsciously, that Brach would disobey her and take the banshees out. She 
knew all about the practice sorties he organized every month at lunar midnight, when he thought nobody was looking. 
If they survived this battle, she might reprimand him. But that was the point — if they survived. When it was life or death, a court martial was the least of a marine's worries. 
She let them go, and tasked the centcomm staff to give full tactical support. Now that they were out there, she had little choice. 
Brach lined up for his second bombardment pass, arming all systems as he brought the banshee in low and level. For the first strike they'd flown in cloaked all the way from base, swooped out of the low sun, firing at the last second, before the zerg could move an overseer towards their position... and before power to the cloaking systems ran out on these old rustbuckets, which would be any second now. Lee had been right about that, at least. 
So now the zerg knew they were coming. Brach had to hope they could press home quickly enough to stop zerg reinforcements from arriving before his men exited the theater. 
"Fire!" 
Brach swooped over the column of roaches, no longer a solid mass of carapace but broken up, gaps punched in the line by the banshees' missiles, and as more rockets blasted down into the valley, more gaps appeared — 
But something wasn't right. He expected to see broken carapaces and zerg guts spread over the ground. Instead, the gaps in the roach column were just that. Gaps, as if the roaches had vanished into thin air. 
Or into the ground. 
Brach saw roaches burrowing into the ground, letting the dusty, cracked surface of the moon swallow them up, safe from harm. Some were injured; others burrowed as a preemptive defense. The banshees would need something more powerful than stingers to take out these particular zerg. 
"Pull back from the roaches! Concentrate fire on—" 
Before he could finish, a sickening thump filled his headset, and a shockwave threw his banshee off kilter. Brach yanked the stick to correct his balance and pulled up, glancing around to locate the source of the concussion, and saw the disintegrating hull of another banshee as it fell to the ground in fiery pieces. And behind it, flying through the explosion, a squadron of mutalisks. 
"Three and high, Captain!" 
His wingman's shout pulled Brach out of his thoughts. He turned to face front and saw two mutalisks soaring down from the upper atmosphere, heading straight for him. 
Illyana zipped up her coolsuit and checked its status. All green. The Garxxax atmosphere was breathable, but nitrogen-rich, so she attached nasal oxygen tubes in case she ran short of breath. Next she pulled her boots tight and double-checked the seal against her suit legs. She'd neglected that the first time she'd gone into the rainforest, and had come within seconds of having a zantar slug slide inside her boot. She'd seen the effects of their acidic mucus excretion often enough on the lab monitors to know how easily it could have taken her lower leg, and she had never neglected her boots again. 
Weapon. Hopefully she wouldn't need it — most of the indigenous wildlife was docile or scared of terrans — but she never went outside without a sidearm. She picked out her old P220, running a quick manual check. It was almost as old as she was, and she knew most old soldiers had moved on to newer, more powerful rifles. But the P220 never jammed, never misfired. The most powerful gun in the galaxy was no use if the damn thing didn't work. 
Finally she slipped a visor over her forehead, ready to shield her eyes from the afternoon sun. Biosphere three was on the north side of a mountain, but if this was a widespread problem, she might need to check the other outposts, and some were in exposed areas for maximum sunlight. Garxxax's extreme axial tilt meant the sun could take hours to finally dip below the horizon at this time of year. 
Dannion walked into the prep room. "I got through to Raynolds. Kind of." 
"Don't be coy, Dan; it doesn't suit you." 
He didn't reply, and Illyana realized the expression she'd initially taken for disappointment was actually fear. 
"What I mean is... he's flatlined. Comms to the biosphere are still out, but I picked up a weak trace from his vitals monitor." Dan exhaled. 
Illyana ushered him back out of the room. "You said the signal was weak. Maybe it's just not getting through properly. Keep trying, OK?" 
"I don't think you should go. We should call for evac right now. It takes four hours for a planet-hopper to reach us out here..." 
She ushered him back towards the main comms room. "It'll be fine, Dan. I know how to handle myself." 
The banshee corkscrewed like a drunk offworlder, weaving in all directions as exploding glave wurms filled the air it had occupied a moment before. Twenty mutalisks pursued it through the sky, spitting writhing wurms at the banshee's retreating backside as the ship wheeled and spun towards Krakulv Base. Black smoke billowed from its left side. 
In central command, Lee Treicher watched the scanners nervously. Her staff had run projections showing that the banshee could make it back to Krakulv defense perimeter before the mutalisks made physical contact. But the projections were rough, and allowing for a damaged turbofan made them even less reliable. 
"Ten seconds to defense range perimeter, Major." 
The banshee flipped into a barrel roll, avoiding a cluster of mutalisks concentrating fire on its right flank. A knot of wurms exploded together, cascading down like firework trails. 
"Five seconds. Four. Three. Two..." 
"Fire all cannons!" Lee shouted. 
The marines manning the heavy weapons heard her loud and clear. A quarter klick from the base walls, the sky blackened with anti-air barrage fire, ripping through mutalisk flesh and wing. The banshee ducked low to avoid the tail end of the barrage. 
"Holy shit, guys, let me get inside before you light her up!" 
Brach's voice crackled through static and the muted whump of nearby explosions, but Lee heard it just fine. She hated herself for smiling, when the other five pilots he'd taken 
out had fallen to mutalisk fire or the hydralisk backup squad that had appeared moments later. But with every passing minute this looked like their last stand, and favoritism be damned, Lee wanted her husband by her side when the shit came down. 
"Report to centcomm for debrief ASAP when you land, Captain." 
Five minutes later he arrived, back in his CMC combat suit as if he'd never left. But his expression betrayed a different story. 
"We eliminated a couple of squadrons, Major. I estimate we've bought ourselves two, maybe three extra hours while they regroup and re-prep the ground wave." 
"Was it worth it?" 
Brach stiffened. "That's not for me to decide, Major. The men carried out their duty, as do we all." 
Lee sighed. "And what about intel? Was there anything to indicate the zerg line of attack when they reach us?" 
Brach hesitated. "Hard to say. They burrowed down into the rock like it was sand." 
"Have you ever walked outside the base? Give me a shovel, and I could burrow into this moon." 
He ignored her sarcasm. She didn't know yet. "And could you heal up a broken leg in five seconds while you were down there?" 
Lee's eyes widened. "What?" 
"I thought I'd killed half the column on my first pass. Then as I came around, I saw a bunch of them burrowing into the surface... and after the mutalisk ambush I looked down again, and I swear, so help me, almost every last roach came back out of the ground good as new. It was like I'd hit them with party streamers." 
Lee set her lips into a thin, grim line and nodded. 
The landing had not been kind to the behemoth, and it would need time to recover. 
More time than the zerg it carried inside its body could survive without sustenance. Besides, 
there was exploring to do. 
The Kerrigan guided them out of the behemoth's unconscious form and out into the 
terrain. The planet was hot, humid, mountainous, and treacherous, but these discomforts 
were nothing to the zerg. Many Ones, Spinebearers, Winged Ones and more swarmed through 
the rainforest, sweeping aside flora and fauna alike. 
Mutalisks soared over the forest canopy to scout the location. Through them, Kerrigan 
saw a nearby structure in the forest. Two pale domes, and smaller buildings of metal 
branching off. Terran or protoss? It didn't matter. Her primary interest lay in military 
installations, which this was obviously not. Still, if it harbored life, it could feed the zerg. She 
issued a single command. 
Attack. 
The hydralisks were the first to smash through the dome's pale screens. Hot air and 
steam rushed out, and the terrans' primitive warning system flashed colored lights. The 
terrain inside the dome was the same as outside, but hotter, with paths of hard floor surface 
weaving through the vegetation. The hydralisks ignored it, surging onward — 
A sound, a terran scream. The Kerrigan urged the hydralisks forward. 
Small slug-like creatures, unknown to the zerg-mind, fell from the trees and plants as 
the hydralisks passed. Some latched onto the zerg, which registered pain where the slugs 
landed, but the Kerrigan's attention was elsewhere. 
A single terran, standing in front of a metal door. He reeked of fear and desperation, a 
heady cocktail that flooded and intoxicated the hydralisks' senses. They drank of it, savoring 
it, and then the cocktail was drained. The only odor remaining on the terran was death. 
Now the zerglings were inside the dome, and followed their brethren to the door. But 
more slugs fell from the trees as the zerglings crashed carelessly through, and more zerg 
registered pain, some at high levels. The Kerrigan brought them to a halt, curious that a 
creature as small as these slugs could injure the mighty zerg. 
She willed some of the zerglings to examine the slugs, but they were fragile creatures 
and died easily under the zerg's razor-sharp claws. She moved her attention instead to the 
hydralisks around the door, and saw something she had originally missed. 
More slug creatures covered the door, and the surface was pitted with holes. Some 
slugs lay inside the shallow holes. The dead terran wore protective coverings over his hands. A 
container at his feet still held several slugs. 
The slugs could not only injure zerg flesh; somehow they could also eat through metal. 
This could be very useful. 
The Kerrigan sensed unexpected movement, and through the zerglings' eyes found its 
source. The slugs they had accidentally killed were twitching. Those only wounded were 
already moving again, with no sign of damage. 
Very useful indeed. 
"Contact from Destroyer transport evac, Major. ETA is sixty minutes." 
Lee breathed a sigh of relief. Forty minutes ago, the zerg had completely surrounded Krakulv Base. Now they were pounding the walls with everything they had, including roach acid blasts, while mutalisks flew hit-and-run raids from the air. The walls were holding, and Brach was in command of repelling the mutalisk waves with batteries of anti-air cannons. But Lee knew it was a matter of when, not if, the zerg breached the moon base. 
Sixty minutes. If the walls, and the cannons, held for that long, she could get the rest of the marines off-site, with total casualties of less than thirty percent. Far better than her estimate after the first attack. 
The mutalisk raids held off for the moment. Lee turned her attention to the exterior feed from the walls, punching it up on the main console. The zerg's relentless battering had damaged many integral wall systems already, and the feed was barely more than static and artifacts. She squinted, trying to discern movement and shape through the fuzz. There were the zerglings; there were the hydralisks and roaches... 
She saw something, or thought she did, that made her heart skip a beat. She scanned back thirty seconds and saw it again. Scanned forward to live feed, and there it was again. And again. 
She drew breath to relay what she'd seen to Brach, but the captain's voice came over her headset before she could speak. 
"Lee, something's happening on the ground! It's hard to make out... Krakulv is negative 
for seismic activity, right?" 
"That's not an earthquake, Brach. I just saw it on the feed." 
Lee reached for the red alert signal on the console, then remembered it had been running since dawn. She touched her headset and broadcast to all hands. 
"Attention, all units. The roaches are tunneling under the walls. Repeat, roaches aren't just burrowing; now they can move underground, too! All non-gunnery hands to the courtyard, immediately!" 
The internal feeds showed marines running from all over the base, making for the courtyards. Then Lee remembered what Brach had seen in the valley. 
"Use heaviest weapons only and confirm kill shot. I repeat, be one hundred percent sure of total kill! These bastards heal real fast, so do not settle for injury! If they burrow, grenade them as they go down!" 
As the marines poured out into the courtyards, C-14 "Impaler" assault rifles armed and ready, the first roach burrowers broke the cracked moon soil inside the walls. The base lit up with gunfire as Lee's troops took the battle to the zerg. The roaches retaliated with acid blasts, and powerful chitinous limbs that ripped one marine in half while she watched. Another fell as a roach erupted from the ground beneath him. She watched him struggle as it dragged him down, and got only a grim satisfaction when earth and carapace showered out of the hole. The marine had set off a grenade as a last resort. 
Ten minutes later, the battle wasn't going well. The roaches were big and well armored, and they regenerated wounds as fast as her marines' Impalers could deal them. She counted five roaches dead, but at the cost of thirty marines and counting. Her men tried to keep their distance, but with roaches literally erupting from the ground beneath them, there was nowhere to hide. 
And then the roaches turned around. 
Lee hoped they were retreating, preparing to burrow back under the walls, but then she realized getting the roaches inside the base was only stage one. They'd been unable to break through the base walls, reinforced against all but the strongest attacks from outside, backed up by automatic sentry weapons. But here on the inside there were no sentries, no buttresses. Just thick slabs of neosteel, which the roaches now assaulted with concentrated streams of acid blasts, three roaches focusing on each single point of attack. The marines hit them with Impaler volleys, but other roaches moved between them, acting as living shields to protect their fellow zerg. 
The mutalisks held off, probably waiting for the roaches to finish their breach. It was what Lee would have done. But that left her with a weapon, and a hard decision to make. She took a deep breath. 
"Brach, take the gyro restrictors off the anti-air cannons, and focus fire on the roaches." 
"Say again, Major?" 
"Point them down, dammit! They're the only guns we have big enough to take them out before they break open the walls!" 
"Our guys are still down there!" 
"I know!" 
Brach cut the comm link. 
Lee waited, powerless and impotent as the roach acid slowly broke down the base walls, molecule by molecule. Section 4D was falling fast. 
A deafening barrage of anti-air fire blasted down into the courtyard, tearing into a group of roaches. The impact splash blew three nearby marines back, arcing through the air. 
"Everyone fall back! I repeat, keep your distance and do not engage!" Brach's voice cut loud and clear over the all-hands comm as anti-air cannons continued to rip through the courtyard. 
Lee scanned the wall status as her staff shouted out reports. 
"Section 8C is falling!" 
"3B at eighty percent!" 
"4D is gone!" 
"Loud and clear! Focusing on those areas now!" 
More cannon fire blasted the courtyard, concentrating on roaches attacking the weakest spots. Where sections of the wall had already been breached, Brach moved the fire from the courtyard to the hole itself, ripping into zerg as they swarmed through. 
Now the mutalisks began attacking again, drawing fire away from the ground as they swooped through the air, unleashing a torrent of wurms at the marines below. 
Lee checked her chrono. Forty minutes. 
Illyana and Dan entered comms together. Dan set to work trying to strengthen the signal from Raynolds's vitals monitor, breathing fast as he punched buttons and tweaked configurations. 
Illyana called up the Extra-Vehicular Assistant console and activated the warm-up sequence for one of the jungle jeeps. They were modified mohicans, but Dr. Callins — chief project scientist, and head of biomorphology — had called them "jungle jeeps" on the first day. Illyana wasn't sure if this was hilarious to scientists, or they were all just sucking up to Callins, but regardless, the name stuck. 
Dan looked up from the console. "What's that noise?" 
Illyana turned, trying to pinpoint the sound, before realizing it was coming from her coolsuit pocket. Her alert sensor was vibrating again. "Oh, no..." She checked the status. "Sphere six is compromised." 
"That's the nearest one to three, heading west. Was there anyone...?" 
"No, only number three was manned today, thank God. What the hell is going on?" 
Dr. Callins rushed into the room. "Kortter, did you screw up the signal? My entire monitor bank to sphere six just went offline!" 
Callins had the typical short temper of a scientist. Illyana stepped between him and Dannion to defuse the inevitable argument they would have. "It's not our doing, sir. Six has been compromised, just like three." 
"Then what the hell are you standing around here for? Get out there and fix it!" 
"That's what I'm about to do. If you'd just calm —" Still in her hand, the alert sensor buzzed. "And now we've lost sphere one." 
"What?!" 
Illyana ignored Callins and called up the outpost map. The biospheres were arranged in a rough circular pattern, each between ten and twenty klicks from the central base. It was close enough to reach them with relative ease, but far and wide enough to 
ensure a good variety of environments. Sphere three was roughly northwest from their position. Six was west of three. One was southwest of six... 
"Dan, look at this. You were right: they're falling in order. Counterclockwise, circular." 
Dannion's expression told Illyana he'd much rather have been wrong. "Order of what, though? There's no reason the spheres should fail in sequence. They're autonomous, with dedicated parallel systems. The only connection they share is us." 
Illyana looked at the order again and recalled Raynolds's words: Like the lights just 
went out. 
