potential for growth. Supplier power on the part of star performers
was strong. So was buyer power. Alternative forms of entertainment—
ranging from various kinds of urban live entertainment to
sporting events to home entertainment—cast an increasingly long
shadow. Children cried out for PlayStations rather than a visit to
the traveling circus. Partially as a result, the industry was suffering
from steadily decreasing audiences and, in turn, declining revenue
and profits. There was also increasing sentiment against the
use of animals in circuses by animal rights groups. Ringling Bros.
and Barnum & Bailey set the standard, and competing smaller circuses
essentially followed with scaled-down versions. From the perspective
of competition-based strategy, then, the circus industry
appeared unattractive.
Another compelling aspect of Cirque du Soleil’s success is that
it did not win by taking customers from the already shrinking circus
industry, which historically catered to children. Cirque du Soleil
did not compete with Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey. Instead
it created uncontested new market space that made the competition
irrelevant. It appealed to a whole new group of customers:
adults and corporate clients prepared to pay a price several times
as great as traditional circuses for an unprecedented entertainment
experience. Significantly, one of the first Cirque productions
was titled “We Reinvent the Circus.”
New Market Space
Cirque du Soleil succeeded because it realized that to win in the future,
companies must stop competing with each other. The only way
to beat the competition is to stop trying to beat the competition.
To understand what Cirque du Soleil has achieved, imagine a
market universe composed of two sorts of oceans: red oceans and
blue oceans. Red oceans represent all the industries in existence
today. This is the known market space. Blue oceans denote all the
industries not in existence today. This is the unknown market space.
In the red oceans, industry boundaries are defined and accepted,
and the competitive rules of the game are known.1 Here, companies
try to outperform their rivals to grab a greater share of existing demand.
As the market space gets crowded, prospects for profits and
growth are reduced. Products become commodities, and cutthroat
competition turns the red ocean bloody.
Blue oceans, in contrast, are defined by untapped market space,
demand creation, and the opportunity for highly profitable growth.
4 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
Although some blue oceans are created well beyond existing industry
boundaries, most are created from within red oceans by expanding
existing industry boundaries, as Cirque du Soleil did. In blue
oceans, competition is irrelevant because the rules of the game are
waiting to be set.
It will always be important to swim successfully in the red ocean
by outcompeting rivals. Red oceans will always matter and will always
be a fact of business life. But with supply exceeding demand
in more industries, competing for a share of contracting markets,
while necessary, will not be sufficient to sustain high performance.2
Companies need to go beyond competing. To seize new profit and
growth opportunities, they also need to create blue oceans.
Unfortunately, blue oceans are largely uncharted. The dominant
focus of strategy work over the past twenty-five years has been on
competition-based red ocean strategies.3 The result has been a
fairly good understanding of how to compete skillfully in red waters,
from analyzing the underlying economic structure of an existing
industry, to choosing a strategic position of low cost or differentiation
or focus, to benchmarking the competition. Some discussions
around blue oceans exist.4 However, there is little practical guidance
on how to create them. Without analytic frameworks to create
blue oceans and principles to effectively manage risk, creating
blue oceans has remained wishful thinking that is seen as too risky
for managers to pursue as strategy. This book provides practical
frameworks and analytics for the systematic pursuit and capture of
blue oceans.
The Continuing Creation of Blue Oceans
Although the term blue oceans is new, their existence is not. They
are a feature of business life, past and present. Look back one hundred
years and ask yourself, How many of today’s industries were
then unknown? The answer: Many industries as basic as automobiles,
music recording, aviation, petrochemicals, health care, and
Creating Blue Oceans 5
management consulting were unheard of or had just begun to
emerge at that time. Now turn the clock back only thirty years.
Again, a plethora of multibillion-dollar industries jumps out—mutual
funds, cell phones, gas-fired electricity plants, biotechnology,
discount retail, express package delivery, minivans, snowboards,
coffee bars, and home videos, to name a few. Just three decades ago,
none of these industries existed in a meaningful way.
Now put the clock forward twenty years—or perhaps fifty years—
and ask yourself how many now unknown industries will likely
exist then. If history is any predictor of the future, again the answer
is many of them.
The reality is that industries never stand still. They continuously
evolve. Operations improve, markets expand, and players
come and go. History teaches us that we have a hugely underestimated
capacity to create new industries and re-create existing
ones. In fact, the half-century-old Standard Industrial Classification
(SIC) system published by the U.S. Census was replaced in 1997
by the North America Industry Classification Standard (NAICS)
system. The new system expanded the ten SIC industry sectors into
twenty sectors to reflect the emerging realities of new industry territories.
5 The services sector under the old system, for example, is
now expanded into seven business sectors ranging from information
to health care and social assistance.6 Given that these systems
are designed for standardization and continuity, such a replacement
shows how significant the expansion of blue oceans has been.
Yet the overriding focus of strategic thinking has been on competition-
based red ocean strategies. Part of the explanation for this
is that corporate strategy is heavily influenced by its roots in military
strategy. The very language of strategy is deeply imbued with
military references—chief executive “officers” in “headquarters,”
“troops” on the “front lines.” Described this way, strategy is about
confronting an opponent and fighting over a given piece of land
that is both limited and constant.7 Unlike war, however, the history
of industry shows us that the market universe has never been
constant; rather, blue oceans have continuously been created over
6 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
time. To focus on the red ocean is therefore to accept the key
constraining factors of war—limited terrain and the need to beat
an enemy to succeed—and to deny the distinctive strength of the
business world: the capacity to create new market space that is uncontested.
The Impact of Creating Blue Oceans
We set out to quantify the impact of creating blue oceans on a company’s
growth in both revenues and profits in a study of the business
launches of 108 companies (see figure 1-1). We found that 86
percent of the launches were line extensions, that is, incremental
improvements within the red ocean of existing market space. Yet
they accounted for only 62 percent of total revenues and a mere 39
percent of total profits. The remaining 14 percent of the launches
were aimed at creating blue oceans. They generated 38 percent of
total revenues and 61 percent of total profits. Given that business
launches included the total investments made for creating red and
blue oceans (regardless of their subsequent revenue and profit consequences,
including failures), the performance benefits of creating
Creating Blue Oceans 7
FIGURE 1-1
The Profit and Growth Consequences of Creating Blue Oceans
Launches within red oceans Launches for creating blue oceans
Business Launch
Revenue Impact
Profit Impact
86% 14%
62% 38%
39% 61%
blue waters are evident. Although we don’t have data on the hit rate
of success of red and blue ocean initiatives, the global performance
differences between them are marked.
The Rising Imperative of Creating Blue Oceans
There are several driving forces behind a rising imperative to create
blue oceans. Accelerated technological advances have substantially
improved industrial productivity and have allowed suppliers to produce
an unprecedented array of products and services. The result
is that in increasing numbers of industries, supply exceeds demand.
8 The trend toward globalization compounds the situation.
As trade barriers between nations and regions are dismantled and
as information on products and prices becomes instantly and globally
available, niche markets and havens for monopoly continue to
disappear.9 While supply is on the rise as global competition intensifies,
there is no clear evidence of an increase in demand worldwide,
and statistics even point to declining populations in many
developed markets.10
The result has been accelerated commoditization of products
and services, increasing price wars, and shrinking profit margins.
Recent industrywide studies on major American brands confirm
this trend.11 They reveal that for major product and service categories,
brands are generally becoming more similar, and as they are
becoming more similar people increasingly select based on price.12
People no longer insist, as in the past, that their laundry detergent
be Tide. Nor will they necessarily stick to Colgate when Crest is on
sale, and vice versa. In overcrowded industries, differentiating brands
becomes harder in both economic upturns and downturns.
All this suggests that the business environment in which most
strategy and management approaches of the twentieth century
evolved is increasingly disappearing. As red oceans become increasingly
bloody, management will need to be more concerned with blue
oceans than the current cohort of managers is accustomed to.
8 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
From Company and Industry to Strategic Move
How can a company break out of the red ocean of bloody competition?
How can it create a blue ocean? Is there a systematic approach
to achieve this and thereby sustain high performance?
In search of an answer, our initial step was to define the basic
unit of analysis for our research. To understand the roots of high
performance, the business literature typically uses the company as
the basic unit of analysis. People have marveled at how companies
attain strong, profitable growth with a distinguished set of strategic,
operational, and organizational characteristics. Our question,
however, was this: Are there lasting “excellent” or “visionary”
companies that continuously outperform the market and repeatedly
create blue oceans?
Consider, for example, In Search of Excellence and Built to Last.13
The bestselling book In Search of Excellence was published twenty
years ago. Yet within two years of its publication a number of the
companies surveyed began to slip into oblivion: Atari, Chesebrough-
Pond’s, Data General, Fluor, National Semiconductor. As documented
in Managing on the Edge, two-thirds of the identified model
firms in the book had fallen from their perches as industry leaders
within five years of its publication.14
The book Built to Last continued in the same footsteps. It sought
out the “successful habits of visionary companies” that had a longrunning
track record of superior performance. To avoid the pitfalls
of In Search of Excellence, however, the survey period of Built to
Last was expanded to the entire life span of the companies while its
analysis was limited to firms more than forty years old. Built to
Last also became a bestseller.
But again, upon closer examination, deficiencies in some of the
visionary companies spotlighted in Built to Last have come to light.
As illustrated in the recent book Creative Destruction, much of the
success attributed to some of the model companies in Built to Last
was the result of industry sector performance rather than the
Creating Blue Oceans 9
companies themselves.15 For example, Hewlett-Packard (HP) met
the criteria of Built to Last by outperforming the market over the
long term. In reality, while HP outperformed the market, so did the
entire computer-hardware industry. What’s more, HP did not even
outperform the competition within the industry. Through this and
other examples, Creative Destruction questioned whether “visionary”
companies that continuously outperform the market have ever existed.
And we all have seen the stagnating or declining performance
of the Japanese companies that were celebrated as “revolutionary”
strategists in their heyday of the late 1970s and early 1980s.
If there is no perpetually high-performing company and if the
same company can be brilliant at one moment and wrongheaded at
another, it appears that the company is not the appropriate unit of
analysis in exploring the roots of high performance and blue oceans.
As discussed earlier, history also shows that industries are constantly
being created and expanded over time and that industry
conditions and boundaries are not given; individual actors can
shape them. Companies need not compete head-on in a given industry
space; Cirque du Soleil created a new market space in the entertainment
sector, generating strong, profitable growth as a result. It
appears, then, that neither the company nor the industry is the best
unit of analysis in studying the roots of profitable growth.
Consistent with this observation, our study shows that the
strategic move, and not the company or the industry, is the right
unit of analysis for explaining the creation of blue oceans and sustained
high performance. A strategic move is the set of managerial
actions and decisions involved in making a major market-creating
business offering. Compaq, for example, was acquired by Hewlett-
Packard in 2001 and ceased to be an independent company. As a result,
many people might judge the company as unsuccessful. This
does not, however, invalidate the blue ocean strategic moves that
Compaq made in creating the server industry. These strategic
moves not only were a part of the company’s powerful comeback in
the mid-1990s but also unlocked a new multibillion-dollar market
space in computing.
10 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
Appendix A, “A Sketch of the Historical Pattern of Blue Ocean
Creation,” provides a snapshot overview of the history of three representative
U.S. industries drawn from our database: the auto industry—
how we get to work; the computer industry—what we use
at work; and the cinema industry—where we go after work for enjoyment.
As shown in appendix A, no perpetually excellent company
or industry is found. But a striking commonality appears to
exist across strategic moves that have created blue oceans and have
led to new trajectories of strong, profitable growth.
The strategic moves we discuss—moves that have delivered products
and services that opened and captured new market space, with
a significant leap in demand—contain great stories of profitable
growth as well as thought-provoking tales of missed opportunities
by companies stuck in red oceans. We built our study around these
strategic moves to understand the pattern by which blue oceans are
created and high performance achieved. We studied more than one
hundred fifty strategic moves made from 1880 to 2000 in more than
thirty industries, and we closely examined the relevant business
players in each of these events. Industries ranged from hotels, the
cinema, retail, airlines, energy, computers, broadcasting, and construction
to automobiles and steel. We analyzed not only winning
business players who created blue oceans but also their less successful
competitors.
Both within a given strategic move and across strategic moves,
we searched for convergence among the group that created blue
oceans and within less successful players caught in the red ocean.
We also searched for divergence across these two groups. In so
doing, we tried to discover the common factors leading to the creation
of blue oceans and the key differences separating those winners
from the mere survivors and the losers adrift in the red ocean.
Our analysis of more than thirty industries confirms that neither
industry nor organizational characteristics explain the distinction
between the two groups. In assessing industry, organizational, and
strategic variables we found that the creation and capturing of blue
oceans were achieved by small and large companies, by young and
Creating Blue Oceans 11
old managers, by companies in attractive and unattractive industries,
by new entrants and established incumbents, by private and
public companies, by companies in low- and high-tech industries,
and by companies of diverse national origins.
Our analysis failed to find any perpetually excellent company or
industry. What we did find behind the seemingly idiosyncratic success
stories, however, was a consistent and common pattern across
strategic moves for creating and capturing blue oceans. Whether it
was Ford in 1908 with the Model T; GM in 1924 with cars styled to
appeal to the emotions; CNN in 1980 with real-time news 24/7; or
Compaq, Starbucks, Southwest Airlines, or Cirque du Soleil—or,
for that matter, any of the other blue ocean moves in our study—the
approach to strategy in creating blue oceans was consistent across
time regardless of industry. Our research also reached out to embrace
famous strategic moves in public sector turnarounds. Here
we found a strikingly similar pattern.
Value Innovation: The Cornerstone
of Blue Ocean Strategy
What consistently separated winners from losers in creating blue
oceans was their approach to strategy. The companies caught in
the red ocean followed a conventional approach, racing to beat the
competition by building a defensible position within the existing
industry order.16 The creators of blue oceans, surprisingly, didn’t
use the competition as their benchmark.17 Instead, they followed a
different strategic logic that we call value innovation. Value innovation
is the cornerstone of blue ocean strategy. We call it value innovation
because instead of focusing on beating the competition,
you focus on making the competition irrelevant by creating a leap
in value for buyers and your company, thereby opening up new and
uncontested market space.
Value innovation places equal emphasis on value and innovation.
Value without innovation tends to focus on value creation on
12 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
an incremental scale, something that improves value but is not sufficient
to make you stand out in the marketplace.18 Innovation without
value tends to be technology-driven, market pioneering, or
futuristic, often shooting beyond what buyers are ready to accept
and pay for.19 In this sense, it is important to distinguish between
value innovation as opposed to technology innovation and market
pioneering. Our study shows that what separates winners from losers
in creating blue oceans is neither bleeding-edge technology nor
“timing for market entry.” Sometimes these exist; more often, however,
they do not. Value innovation occurs only when companies
align innovation with utility, price, and cost positions. If they fail
to anchor innovation with value in this way, technology innovators
and market pioneers often lay the eggs that other companies hatch.
Value innovation is a new way of thinking about and executing
strategy that results in the creation of a blue ocean and a break
from the competition. Importantly, value innovation defies one of
the most commonly accepted dogmas of competition-based strategy:
the value-cost trade-off.20 It is conventionally believed that
companies can either create greater value to customers at a higher
cost or create reasonable value at a lower cost. Here strategy is
seen as making a choice between differentiation and low cost.21 In
contrast, those that seek to create blue oceans pursue differentiation
and low cost simultaneously.
Let’s return to the example of Cirque du Soleil. Pursuing differentiation
and low cost simultaneously lies at the heart of the entertainment
experience it created. At the time of its debut, other
circuses focused on benchmarking one another and maximizing
their share of already shrinking demand by tweaking traditional
circus acts. This included trying to secure more famous clowns and
lion tamers, a strategy that raised circuses’ cost structure without
substantially altering the circus experience. The result was rising
costs without rising revenues, and a downward spiral of overall circus
demand.
These efforts were made irrelevant when Cirque du Soleil appeared.
Neither an ordinary circus nor a classic theater production,
Creating Blue Oceans 13
Cirque du Soleil paid no heed to what the competition did. Instead
of following the conventional logic of outpacing the competition
by offering a better solution to the given problem—creating a circus
with even greater fun and thrills—it sought to offer people the
fun and thrill of the circus and the intellectual sophistication and
artistic richness of the theater at the same time; hence, it redefined
the problem itself.22 By breaking the market boundaries of theater
and circus, Cirque du Soleil gained a new understanding not only
of circus customers but also of circus noncustomers: adult theater
customers.
This led to a whole new circus concept that broke the value-cost
trade-off and created a blue ocean of new market space. Consider
the differences. Whereas other circuses focused on offering animal
shows, hiring star performers, presenting multiple show arenas in
the form of three rings, and pushing aisle concession sales, Cirque
du Soleil did away with all these factors. These factors had long
been taken for granted in the traditional circus industry, which
never questioned their ongoing relevance. However, there was increasing
public discomfort with the use of animals. Moreover, animal
acts were one of the most expensive elements, including not
only the cost of the animals but also their training, medical care,
housing, insurance, and transportation.
Similarly, while the circus industry focused on featuring stars, in
the mind of the public the so-called stars of the circus were trivial
next to movie stars. Again, they were a high-cost component carrying
little sway with spectators. Gone, too, are three-ring venues.
Not only did this arrangement create angst among spectators as
they rapidly switched their gaze from one ring to the other, but it
also increased the number of performers needed, with obvious cost
implications. And although aisle concession sales appeared to be a
good way to generate revenue, in practice the high prices discouraged
audiences from making purchases and made them feel they
were being taken for a ride.
The lasting allure of the traditional circus came down to only
three key factors: the tent, the clowns, and the classic acrobatic
14 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
acts such as the wheelman and short stunts. So Cirque du Soleil
kept the clowns but shifted their humor from slapstick to a more enchanting,
sophisticated style. It glamorized the tent, an element
that, ironically, many circuses had begun to forfeit in favor of
rented venues. Seeing that this unique venue symbolically captured
the magic of the circus, Cirque du Soleil designed the classic
symbol of the circus with a glorious external finish and a higher
level of comfort, making its tents reminiscent of the grand epic circuses.
Gone were the sawdust and hard benches. Acrobats and
other thrilling acts are retained, but their roles were reduced and
made more elegant by the addition of artistic flair and intellectual
wonder to the acts.
By looking across the market boundary of theater, Cirque du
Soleil also offered new noncircus factors, such as a story line and,
with it, intellectual richness, artistic music and dance, and multiple
productions. These factors, entirely new creations for the circus industry,
are drawn from the alternative live entertainment industry
of theater.
Unlike traditional circus shows having a series of unrelated
acts, for example, each Cirque du Soleil creation has a theme and
story line, somewhat resembling a theater performance. Although
the theme is vague (and intentionally so), it brings harmony and an
intellectual element to the show—without limiting the potential
for acts. Le Cirque also borrows ideas from Broadway shows. For
example, it features multiple productions rather than the traditional
“one for all” shows. As with Broadway shows, too, each Cirque du
Soleil show has an original score and assorted music, which drives
the visual performance, lighting, and timing of the acts rather than
the other way around. The shows feature abstract and spiritual
dance, an idea derived from theater and ballet. By introducing
these new factors into its offering, Cirque du Soleil has created
more sophisticated shows.
Moreover, by injecting the concept of multiple productions and
by giving people a reason to come to the circus more frequently,
Cirque du Soleil has dramatically increased demand.
Creating Blue Oceans 15
In short, Cirque du Soleil offers the best of both circus and theater,
and it has eliminated or reduced everything else. By offering unprecedented
utility, Cirque du Soleil has created a blue ocean and
has invented a new form of live entertainment, one that is markedly
different from both traditional circus and theater. At the same time,
by eliminating many of the most costly elements of the circus, it has
dramatically reduced its cost structure, achieving both differentiation
and low cost. Le Cirque strategically priced its tickets against
those of the theater, lifting the price point of the circus industry by
several multiples while still pricing its productions to capture the
mass of adult customers, who were used to theater prices.
Figure 1-2 depicts the differentiation–low cost dynamics underpinning
value innovation.
16 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
FIGURE 1-2
Value Innovation: The Cornerstone of Blue Ocean Strategy
Value innovation is created in the region where a company’s actions favorably affect both
its cost structure and its value proposition to buyers. Cost savings are made by eliminating
and reducing the factors an industry competes on. Buyer value is lifted by raising and
creating elements the industry has never offered. Over time, costs are reduced further as
scale economies kick in due to the high sales volumes that superior value generates.
The Simultaneous Pursuit of Differentiation and Low Cost
Value
Innovation
Costs
Buyer Value
As shown in figure 1-2, the creation of blue oceans is about driving
costs down while simultaneously driving value up for buyers.
This is how a leap in value for both the company and its buyers is
achieved. Because buyer value comes from the utility and price
that the company offers to buyers and because the value to the company
is generated from price and its cost structure, value innovation
is achieved only when the whole system of the company’s utility,
price, and cost activities is properly aligned. It is this whole-system
approach that makes the creation of blue oceans a sustainable
strategy. Blue ocean strategy integrates the range of a firm’s functional
and operational activities.
In contrast, innovations such as production innovations can be
achieved at the subsystem level without impacting the company’s
overall strategy. An innovation in the production process, for example,
may lower a company’s cost structure to reinforce its existing
cost leadership strategy without changing the utility proposition
of its offering. Although innovations of this sort may help to secure
and even lift a company’s position in the existing market space,
such a subsystem approach will rarely create a blue ocean of new
market space.
In this sense, value innovation is more than innovation. It is
about strategy that embraces the entire system of a company’s activities.
23 Value innovation requires companies to orient the whole
system toward achieving a leap in value for both buyers and themselves.
Absent such an integral approach, innovation will remain
divided from the core of strategy.24 Figure 1-3 outlines the key
defining features of red and blue ocean strategies.
Competition-based red ocean strategy assumes that an industry’s
structural conditions are given and that firms are forced to
compete within them, an assumption based on what the academics
call the structuralist view, or environmental determinism.25 In contrast,
value innovation is based on the view that market boundaries
and industry structure are not given and can be reconstructed
by the actions and beliefs of industry players. We call this the
Creating Blue Oceans 17
reconstructionist view. In the red ocean, differentiation costs because
firms compete with the same best-practice rule. Here, the
strategic choices for firms are to pursue either differentiation or
low cost. In the reconstructionist world, however, the strategic aim
is to create new best-practice rules by breaking the existing valuecost
trade-off and thereby creating a blue ocean. (For more discussions
on this, see appendix B, “Value Innovation: A Reconstructionist
View of Strategy.”)
Cirque du Soleil broke the best practice rule of the circus industry,
achieving both differentiation and low cost by reconstructing
elements across existing industry boundaries. Is Cirque du Soleil,
then, really a circus, with all that it eliminated, reduced, raised,
and created? Or is it theater? And if it is theater, then what genre—
a Broadway show, an opera, a ballet? It is not clear. Cirque du Soleil
reconstructed elements across these alternatives, and, in the end, it
is simultaneously a little of all of them and none of any of them in
their entirety. It created a blue ocean of new, uncontested market
space that as of yet has no agreed-on industry name.
18 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
FIGURE 1-3
Red Ocean Versus Blue Ocean Strategy
Red Ocean Strategy Blue Ocean Strategy
Compete in existing market space. Create uncontested market space.
Beat the competition. Make the competition irrelevant.
Exploit existing demand. Create and capture new demand.
Make the value-cost trade-off. Break the value-cost trade-off.
Align the whole system of a firm’s activities Align the whole system of a firm’s
with its strategic choice of differentiation activities in pursuit of differentiation
or low cost. and low cost.
Formulating and Executing
Blue Ocean Strategy
Although economic conditions indicate the rising imperative of
blue oceans, there is a general belief that the odds of success are
lower when companies venture beyond existing industry space.26 The
issue is how to succeed in blue oceans. How can companies systematically
maximize the opportunities while simultaneously minimizing
the risks of formulating and executing blue ocean strategy? If
you lack an understanding of the opportunity-maximizing and riskminimizing
principles driving the creation and capture of blue oceans,
the odds will be lengthened against your blue ocean initiative.
Of course, there is no such thing as a riskless strategy.27 Strategy
will always involve both opportunity and risk, be it a red ocean or a
blue ocean initiative. But at present the playing field is dramatically
unbalanced in favor of tools and analytical frameworks to
succeed in red oceans. As long as this remains true, red oceans will
continue to dominate companies’ strategic agenda even as the business
imperative for creating blue oceans takes on new urgency. Perhaps
this explains why, despite prior calls for companies to go
beyond existing industry space, companies have yet to act seriously
on these recommendations.
This book seeks to address this imbalance by laying out a methodology
to support our thesis. Here we present the principles and analytical
frameworks to succeed in blue oceans.
Chapter 2 introduces the analytical tools and frameworks that
are essential for creating and capturing blue oceans. Although
supplementary tools are introduced in other chapters as needed,
these basic analytics are used throughout the book. Companies
can make proactive changes in industry or market fundamentals
through the purposeful application of these blue ocean tools and
frameworks, which are grounded in the issues of both opportunity
and risk. Subsequent chapters introduce the principles that drive
Creating Blue Oceans 19
