"I'm a goat from the waist down."
"You just said it didn't matter."
"Blaa-ha-ha! There are satyrs who would trample you underhoof for such an insult!"
"Whoa. Wait. Satyrs. You mean like ... Mr. Brunner's myths?"
"Were those old ladies at the fruit stand a myth, Percy? Was Mrs. Dodds a myth?"
"So you admit there was a Mrs. Dodds!"
"Of course."
"Then why-"
"The less you knew, the fewer monsters you'd attract," Grover said, like that should be perfectly 
obvious. "We put Mist over the humans' eyes. We hoped you'd think the Kindly One was a hallucination. 
But it was no good. You started to realize who you are."
"Who I-wait a minute, what do you mean?"
The weird bellowing noise rose up again somewhere behind us, closer than before. Whatever was 
chasing us was still on our trail.
"Percy," my mom said, "there's too much to explain and not enough time. We have to get you to 
safety."
"Safety from what? Who's after me?"
"Oh, nobody much," Grover said, obviously still miffed about the donkey comment. "Just the Lord of the 
Dead and a few of his blood-thirstiest minions."
"Grover!"
"Sorry, Mrs. Jackson. Could you drive faster, please?"
I tried to wrap my mind around what was happening, but I couldn't do it. I knew this wasn't a dream. I 
had no imagination. I could never dream up something this weird.
My mom made a hard left. We swerved onto a narrower road, racing past darkened farmhouses and 
wooded hills and PICK YOUR OWN STRAWBERRIES signs on white picket fences.
"Where are we going?" I asked.
"The summer camp I told you about." My mother's voice was tight; she was trying for my sake not to be 
scared. "The place your father wanted to send you."
"The place you didn't want me to go."
"Please, dear," my mother begged. "This is hard enough. Try to understand. You're in danger."
"Because some old ladies cut yarn."
"Those weren't old ladies," Grover said. "Those were the Fates. Do you know what it means-the fact 
they appeared in front of you? They only do that when you're about to ... when someone's about to 
die."
"Whoa. You said 'you.'"
"No I didn't. I said 'someone.'"
"You meant 'you.' As in me."
"I meant you, like 'someone.' Not you, you."
"Boys!" my mom said.
She pulled the wheel hard to the right, and I got a glimpse of a figure she'd swerved to avoid-a dark 
flutter-ing shape now lost behind us in the storm.
"What was that?" I asked.
"We're almost there," my mother said, ignoring my question. "Another mile. Please. Please. Please."
I didn't know where there was, but I found myself lean-ing forward in the car, anticipating, wanting us to 
arrive.
Outside, nothing but rain and darkness-the kind of empty countryside you get way out on the tip of Long 
Island. I thought about Mrs. Dodds and the moment when she'd changed into the thing with pointed 
teeth and leath-ery wings. My limbs went numb from delayed shock. She really hadn't been human. 
She'd meant to kill me.
Then I thought about Mr. Brunner ... and the sword he had thrown me. Before I could ask Grover about 
that, the hair rose on the back of my neck. There was a blinding flash, a jaw-rattling boom!, and our car 
exploded.
I remember feeling weightless, like I was being crushed, fried, and hosed down all at the same time.
I peeled my forehead off the back of the driver's seat and said, "Ow."
"Percy!" my mom shouted.
"I'm okay... ."
I tried to shake off the daze. I wasn't dead. The car hadn't really exploded. We'd swerved into a ditch. 
Our driver's-side doors were wedged in the mud. The roof had cracked open like an eggshell and rain 
was pouring in.
Lightning. That was the only explanation. We'd been blasted right off the road. Next to me in the 
backseat was a big motionless lump. "Grover!"
He was slumped over, blood trickling from the side of his mouth. I shook his furry hip, thinking, No! Even 
if you are half barnyard animal, you're my best friend and I don't want you to die!
Then he groaned "Food," and I knew there was hope.
"Percy," my mother said, "we have to ..." Her voice faltered.
I looked back. In a flash of lightning, through the mud-spattered rear windshield, I saw a figure 
lumbering toward us on the shoulder of the road. The sight of it made my skin crawl. It was a dark 
silhouette of a huge guy, like a football player. He seemed to be holding a blanket over his head. His top 
half was bulky and fuzzy. His upraised hands made it look like he had horns.
I swallowed hard. "Who is-"
"Percy," my mother said, deadly serious. "Get out of the car."
My mother threw herself against the driver's-side door. It was jammed shut in the mud. I tried mine. 
Stuck too. I looked up desperately at the hole in the roof. It might've been an exit, but the edges were 
sizzling and smoking.
"Climb out the passenger's side!" my mother told me. "Percy-you have to run. Do you see that big tree?"
"What?"
Another flash of lightning, and through the smoking hole in the roof I saw the tree she meant: a huge, 
White House Christmas tree-sized pine at the crest of the nearest hill.
"That's the property line," my mom said. "Get over that hill and you'll see a big farmhouse down in the 
valley. Run and don't look back. Yell for help. Don't stop until you reach the door."
"Mom, you're coming too."
Her face was pale, her eyes as sad as when she looked at the ocean.  "No!" I shouted. "You are coming with me. Help me carry Grover."
"Food!" Grover moaned, a little louder.
The man with the blanket on his head kept coming toward us, making his grunting, snorting noises. As 
he got closer, I realized he couldn't be holding a blanket over his head, because his hands-huge meaty 
hands-were swing-ing at his sides. There was no blanket. Meaning the bulky, fuzzy mass that was too big 
to be his head ... was his head. And the points that looked like horns ...
"He doesn't want us," my mother told me. "He wants you. Besides, I can't cross the property line."
"But..."
"We don't have time, Percy. Go. Please."
I got mad, then-mad at my mother, at Grover the goat, at the thing with horns that was lumbering 
toward us slowly and deliberately like, like a bull.
I climbed across Grover and pushed the door open into the rain. "We're going together. Come on, 
Mom."
"I told you-"
"Mom! I am not leaving you. Help me with Grover."
I didn't wait for her answer. I scrambled outside, drag-ging Grover from the car. He was surprisingly 
light, but I couldn't have carried him very far if my mom hadn't come to my aid.
Together, we draped Grover's arms over our shoulders and started stumbling uphill through wet waisthigh grass.
Glancing back, I got my first clear look at the monster. He was seven feet tall, easy, his arms and legs like 
something from the cover of Muscle Man magazine-bulging biceps and triceps and a bunch of other 
'ceps, all stuffed like baseballs under vein-webbed skin. He wore no clothes except under-wear-I mean, 
bright white Fruit of the Looms-which would've looked funny, except that the top half of his body was so 
scary. Coarse brown hair started at about his belly button and got thicker as it reached his shoulders.
His neck was a mass of muscle and fur leading up to his enormous head, which had a snout as long as 
my arm, snotty nostrils with a gleaming brass ring, cruel black eyes, and horns-enormous black-andwhite horns with points you just couldn't get from an electric sharpener.
I recognized the monster, all right. He had been in one of the first stories Mr. Brunner told us. But he 
couldn't be real.
I blinked the rain out of my eyes. "That's-"
"Pasiphae's son," my mother said. "I wish I'd known how badly they want to kill you."
"But he's the Min-"
"Don't say his name," she warned. "Names have power."
The pine tree was still way too far-a hundred yards uphill at least.
I glanced behind me again.
The bull-man hunched over our car, looking in the win-dows-or not looking, exactly. More like snuffling, 
nuz-zling. I wasn't sure why he bothered, since we were only about fifty feet away.
"Food?" Grover moaned.
"Shhh," I told him. "Mom, what's he doing? Doesn't he see us?"
"His sight and hearing are terrible," she said. "He goes by smell. But he'll figure out where we are soon 
enough."
As if on cue, the bull-man bellowed in rage. He picked up Gabe's Camaro by the torn roof, the chassis 
creaking and groaning. He raised the car over his head and threw it down the road. It slammed into the 
wet asphalt and skidded in a shower of sparks for about half a mile before coming to a stop. The gas 
tank exploded.
Not a scratch, I remembered Gabe saying.
Oops.
"Percy," my mom said. "When he sees us, he'll charge. Wait until the last second, then jump out of the 
way- directly sideways. He can't change directions very well once he's charging. Do you understand?"
"How do you know all this?"
"I've been worried about an attack for a long time. I should have expected this. I was selfish, keeping you 
near me."
"Keeping me near you? But-"
Another bellow of rage, and the bull-man started tromping uphill.
He'd smelled us.
The pine tree was only a few more yards, but the hill was getting steeper and slicker, and Grover wasn't 
getting any lighter.
The bull-man closed in. Another few seconds and he'd be on top of us.
My mother must've been exhausted, but she shouldered Grover. "Go, Percy! Separate! Remember what 
I said."
I didn't want to split up, but I had the feeling she was right-it was our only chance. I sprinted to the left, 
turned, and saw the creature bearing down on me. His black eyes glowed with hate. He reeked like 
rotten meat.
He lowered his head and charged, those razor-sharp horns aimed straight at my chest.
The fear in my stomach made me want to bolt, but that wouldn't work. I could never outrun this thing. 
So I held my ground, and at the last moment, I jumped to the side.
The bull-man stormed past like a freight train, then bel-lowed with frustration and turned, but not 
toward me this time, toward my mother, who was setting Grover down in the grass.
We'd reached the crest of the hill. Down the other side I could see a valley, just as my mother had said, 
and the lights of a farmhouse glowing yellow through the rain. But that was half a mile away. We'd 
never make it.
The bull-man grunted, pawing the ground. He kept eyeing my mother, who was now retreating slowly 
downhill, back toward the road, trying to lead the monster away from Grover.
"Run, Percy!" she told me. "I can't go any farther. Run!"
But I just stood there, frozen in fear, as the monster charged her. She tried to sidestep, as she'd told me 
to do, but the monster had learned his lesson. His hand shot out and grabbed her by the neck as she 
tried to get away. He lifted her as she struggled, kicking and pummeling the air.
"Mom!"
She caught my eyes, managed to choke out one last word: "Go!"
Then, with an angry roar, the monster closed his fists around my mother's neck, and she dissolved 
before my eyes, melting into light, a shimmering golden form, as if she were a holographic projection. A 
blinding flash, and she was sim-ply ... gone.
"No!"
Anger replaced my fear. Newfound strength burned in my limbs-the same rush of energy I'd gotten 
when Mrs. Dodds grew talons.
The bull-man bore down on Grover, who lay helpless in the grass. The monster hunched over, snuffling 
my best friend, as if he were about to lift Grover up and make him dissolve too.
I couldn't allow that.
I stripped off my red rain jacket.
"Hey!" I screamed, waving the jacket, running to one side of the monster. "Hey, stupid! Ground beef!"
"Raaaarrrrr!" The monster turned toward me, shaking his meaty fists.
I had an idea-a stupid idea, but better than no idea at all. I put my back to the big pine tree and waved 
my red jacket in front of the bull-man, thinking I'd jump out of the way at the last moment.
But it didn't happen like that.
The bull-man charged too fast, his arms out to grab me whichever way I tried to dodge.
Time slowed down.
My legs tensed. I couldn't jump sideways, so I leaped straight up, kicking off from the creature's head, 
using it as a springboard, turning in midair, and landing on his neck.
How did I do that? I didn't have time to figure it out. A millisecond later, the monster's head slammed 
into the tree and the impact nearly knocked my teeth out.
The bull-man staggered around, trying to shake me. I locked my arms around his horns to keep from 
being thrown. Thunder and lightning were still going strong. The rain was in my eyes. The smell of rotten 
meat burned my nostrils.
The monster shook himself around and bucked like a rodeo bull. He should have just backed up into the 
tree and smashed me flat, but I was starting to realize that this thing had only one gear: forward.
Meanwhile, Grover started groaning in the grass. I wanted to yell at him to shut up, but the way I was 
getting tossed around, if I opened my mouth I'd bite my own tongue off.
"Food!" Grover moaned.
The bull-man wheeled toward him, pawed the ground again, and got ready to charge. I thought about 
how he had squeezed the life out of my mother, made her disappear in a flash of light, and rage filled 
me like high-octane fuel. I got both hands around one horn and I pulled backward with all my might. The 
monster tensed, gave a surprised grunt, then-snap!
The bull-man screamed and flung me through the air. I landed flat on my back in the grass. My head 
smacked against a rock. When I sat up, my vision was blurry, but I had a horn in my hands, a ragged 
bone weapon the size of a knife.
The monster charged.
Without thinking, I rolled to one side and came up kneeling. As the monster barreled past, I drove the 
broken horn straight into his side, right up under his furry rib cage.
The bull-man roared in agony. He flailed, clawing at his chest, then began to disintegrate-not like my 
mother, in a flash of golden light, but like crumbling sand, blown away in chunks by the wind, the same 
way Mrs. Dodds had burst apart.
The monster was gone.
The rain had stopped. The storm still rumbled, but only in the distance. I smelled like livestock and my 
knees were shaking. My head felt like it was splitting open. I was weak and scared and trembling with 
grief I'd just seen my mother vanish. I wanted to lie down and cry, but there was Grover, needing my 
help, so I managed to haul him up and stagger down into the valley, toward the lights of the farm-house. 
I was crying, calling for my mother, but I held on to Grover-I wasn't going to let him go.
The last thing I remember is collapsing on a wooden porch, looking up at a ceiling fan circling above me, 
moths flying around a yellow light, and the stern faces of a familiar-looking bearded man and a pretty 
girl, her blond hair curled like a princess's. They both looked down at me, and the girl said, "He's the 
one. He must be."
"Silence, Annabeth," the man said. "He's still conscious. Bring him inside."
5 I PLAY PINOCHLE
WITH A HORSE
I had weird dreams full of barnyard animals. Most of them wanted to kill me. The rest wanted food.
I must've woken up several times, but what I heard and saw made no sense, so I just passed out again. I 
remember lying in a soft bed, being spoon-fed something that tasted like buttered popcorn, only it was 
pudding. The girl with curly blond hair hovered over me, smirking as she scraped drips off my chin with 
the spoon.
When she saw my eyes open, she asked, "What will happen at the summer solstice?"
I managed to croak, "What?"
She looked around, as if afraid someone would over-hear. "What's going on? What was stolen? We've 
only got a few weeks!"
"I'm sorry," I mumbled, "I don't..."
Somebody knocked on the door, and the girl quickly filled my mouth with pudding.
The next time I woke up, the girl was gone.
A husky blond dude, like a surfer, stood in the corner of the bedroom keeping watch over me. He had 
blue eyes- at least a dozen of them-on his cheeks, his forehead, the backs of his hands.
When I finally came around for good, there was nothing weird about my surroundings, except that they 
were nicer than I was used to. I was sitting in a deck chair on a huge porch, gazing across a meadow at 
green hills in the distance. The breeze smelled like strawberries. There was a blanket over my legs, a 
pillow behind my neck. All that was great, but my mouth felt like a scorpion had been using it for a nest. 
My tongue was dry and nasty and every one of my teeth hurt.
On the table next to me was a tall drink. It looked like iced apple juice, with a green straw and a paper 
parasol stuck through a maraschino cherry.
My hand was so weak I almost dropped the glass once I got my fingers around it.
"Careful," a familiar voice said.
Grover was leaning against the porch railing, looking like he hadn't slept in a week. Under one arm, he 
cradled a shoe box. He was wearing blue jeans, Converse hi-tops and a bright orange T-shirt that said 
CAMP HALF-BLOOD. Just plain old Grover, Not the goat boy.
So maybe I'd had a nightmare. Maybe my mom was okay. We were still on vacation, and we'd stopped 
here at this big house for some reason. And ...
"You saved my life," Grover said. "I... well, the least I could do ... I went back to the hill. I thought you 
might want this."
Reverently, he placed the shoe box in my lap.
Inside was a black-and-white bull's horn, the base jagged from being broken off, the tip splattered with 
dried blood. It hadn't been a nightmare.
"The Minotaur," I said.
"Urn, Percy, it isn't a good idea-"
"That's what they call him in the Greek myths, isn't it?" I demanded. "The Minotaur. Half man, half bull."
Grover shifted uncomfortably. "You've been out for two days. How much do you remember?"
"My mom. Is she really ..."
He looked down.
I stared across the meadow. There were groves of trees, a winding stream, acres of strawberries spread 
out under the blue sky. The valley was surrounded by rolling hills, and the tallest one, directly in front of 
us, was the one with the huge pine tree on top. Even that looked beautiful in the sunlight.
My mother was gone. The whole world should be black and cold. Nothing should look beautiful.
"I'm sorry," Grover sniffled. "I'm a failure. I'm-I'm the worst satyr in the world."
He moaned, stomping his foot so hard it came off. I mean, the Converse hi-top came off. The inside was 
filled with Styrofoam, except for a hoof-shaped hole.
"Oh, Styx!" he mumbled.
Thunder rolled across the clear sky.
As he struggled to get his hoof back in the fake foot, I thought, Well, that settles it.
Grover was a satyr. I was ready to bet that if I shaved his curly brown hair, I'd find tiny horns on his head. 
But I was too miserable to care that satyrs existed, or even minotaurs. All that meant was my mom 
really had been squeezed into nothingness, dissolved into yellow light.
I was alone. An orphan. I would have to live with ... Smelly Gabe? No. That would never happen. I would 
live on the streets first. I would pretend I was seventeen and join the army. I'd do something.
Grover was still sniffling. The poor kid-poor goat, satyr, whatever-looked as if he expected to be hit.
I said, "It wasn't your fault."
"Yes, it was. I was supposed to protect you."
"Did my mother ask you to protect me?"
"No. But that's my job. I'm a keeper. At least... I was."
"But why ..." I suddenly felt dizzy, my vision swim-ming.
"Don't strain yourself," Grover said. "Here." He helped me hold my glass and put the straw to my lips.
I recoiled at the taste, because I was expecting apple juice. It wasn't that at all. It was chocolate-chip 
cookies. Liquid cookies. And not just any cookies-my mom's homemade blue chocolate-chip cookies, 
buttery and hot, with the chips still melting. Drinking it, my whole body felt warm and good, full of 
energy. My grief didn't go away, but I felt as if my mom had just brushed her hand against my cheek, 
given me a cookie the way she used to when I was small, and told me everything was going to be okay.
Before I knew it, I'd drained the glass. I stared into it, sure I'd just had a warm drink, but the ice cubes 
hadn't even melted.
"Was it good?" Grover asked.
I nodded.
"What did it taste like?" He sounded so wistful, I felt guilty.
"Sorry," I said. "I should've let you taste."
His eyes got wide. "No! That's not what I meant. I just... wondered."
"Chocolate-chip cookies," I said. "My mom's. Home-made."
He sighed. "And how do you feel?"
"Like I could throw Nancy Bobofit a hundred yards."
"That's good," he said. "That's good. I don't think you could risk drinking any more of that stuff"
"What do you mean?"
He took the empty glass from me gingerly, as if it were dynamite, and set it back on the table. "Come on. 
Chiron and Mr. D are waiting."
The porch wrapped all the way around the farmhouse.
My legs felt wobbly, trying to walk that far. Grover offered to carry the Minotaur horn, but I held on to 
it. I'd paid for that souvenir the hard way. I wasn't going to let it go.
As we came around the opposite end of the house, I caught my breath.
We must've been on the north shore of Long Island, because on this side of the house, the valley 
marched all the way up to the water, which glittered about a mile in the distance. Between here and 
there, I simply couldn't process everything I was seeing. The landscape was dotted with buildings that 
looked like ancient Greek architecture-an open-air pavilion, an amphitheater, a circular arena-except 
that they all looked brand new, their white marble columns sparkling in the sun. In a nearby sandpit, a
dozen high school-age kids and satyrs played volleyball. Canoes glided across a small lake. Kids in bright 
orange T-shirts like Grover's were chasing each other around a cluster of cabins nestled in the woods. 
Some shot targets at an archery range. Others rode horses down a wooded trail, and, unless I was 
hallucinating, some of their horses had wings.
Down at the end of the porch, two men sat across from each other at a card table. The blond-haired girl 
who'd spoon-fed me popcorn-flavored pudding was leaning on the porch rail next to them.
The man facing me was small, but porky. He had a red nose, big watery eyes, and curly hair so black it 
was almost purple. He looked like those paintings of baby angels- what do you call them, hubbubs? No, 
cherubs. That's it. He looked like a cherub who'd turned middle-aged in a trailer park. He wore a tigerpattern Hawaiian shirt, and he would've fit right in at one of Gabe's poker parties, except I got the 
feeling this guy could've out-gambled even my step-father.
"That's Mr. D," Grover murmured to me. "He's the camp director. Be polite. The girl, that's Annabeth 
Chase. She's just a camper, but she's been here longer than just about anybody. And you already know 
Chiron... ."
He pointed at the guy whose back was to me.
First, I realized he was sitting in the wheelchair. Then I recognized the tweed jacket, the thinning brown 
hair, the scraggly beard.
"Mr. Brunner!" I cried.
The Latin teacher turned and smiled at me. His eyes had that mischievous glint they sometimes got in 
class when he pulled a pop quiz and made all the multiple choice answers B.
"Ah, good, Percy," he said. "Now we have four for pinochle."  He offered me a chair to the right of Mr. D, who looked at me with bloodshot eyes and heaved a great 
sigh. "Oh, I suppose I must say it. Welcome to Camp Half-Blood. There. Now, don't expect me to be glad 
to see you."
"Uh, thanks." I scooted a little farther away from him because, if there was one thing I had learned from 
living with Gabe, it was how to tell when an adult has been hit-ting the happy juice. If Mr. D was a 
stranger to alcohol, I was a satyr.
"Annabeth?" Mr. Brunner called to the blond girl.
She came forward and Mr. Brunner introduced us. "This young lady nursed you back to health, Percy. 
Annabeth, my dear, why don't you go check on Percy's bunk? We'll be putting him in cabin eleven for 
now."
Annabeth said, "Sure, Chiron."
She was probably my age, maybe a couple of inches taller, and a whole lot more athletic looking. With 
her deep tan and her curly blond hair, she was almost exactly what I thought a stereotypical California 
girl would look like, except her eyes ruined the image. They were startling gray, like storm clouds; pretty, 
but intimidating, too, as if she were analyzing the best way to take me down in a fight.
She glanced at the minotaur horn in my hands, then back at me. I imagined she was going to say, You 
killed a mino-taur! or Wow, you're so awesome! or something like that.
Instead she said, "You drool when you sleep."
Then she sprinted off down the lawn, her blond hair flying behind her.
"So," I said, anxious to change the subject. "You, uh, work here, Mr. Brunner?"
"Not Mr. Brunner," the ex-Mr. Brunner said. "I'm afraid that was a pseudonym. You may call me Chiron."
"Okay." Totally confused, I looked at the director. "And Mr. D ... does that stand for something?"
Mr. D stopped shuffling the cards. He looked at me like I'd just belched loudly. "Young man, names are 
power-ful things. You don't just go around using them for no reason."
"Oh. Right. Sorry."
"I must say, Percy," Chiron-Brunner broke in, "I'm glad to see you alive. It's been a long time since I've 
made a house call to a potential camper. I'd hate to think I've wasted my time."
"House call?"
"My year at Yancy Academy, to instruct you. We have satyrs at most schools, of course, keeping a 
lookout. But Grover alerted me as soon as he met you. He sensed you were something special, so I 
decided to come upstate. I convinced the other Latin teacher to ... ah, take a leave of absence."
I tried to remember the beginning of the school year. It seemed like so long ago, but I did have a fuzzy 
memory of there being another Latin teacher my first week at Yancy. Then, without explanation, he had 
disappeared and Mr. Brunner had taken the class.
"You came to Yancy just to teach me?" I asked.
Chiron nodded. "Honestly, I wasn't sure about you at first. We contacted your mother, let her know we 
were keeping an eye on you in case you were ready for Camp Half-Blood. But you still had so much to 
learn. Nevertheless, you made it here alive, and that's always the first test."
"Grover," Mr. D said impatiently, "are you playing or not?"
"Yes, sir!" Grover trembled as he took the fourth chair, though I didn't know why he should be so afraid 
of a pudgy little man in a tiger-print Hawaiian shirt.
"You do know how to play pinochle?" Mr. D eyed me suspiciously.
"I'm afraid not," I said.
"I'm afraid not, sir," he said.
"Sir," I repeated. I was liking the camp director less and less.
"Well," he told me, "it is, along with gladiator fighting and Pac-Man, one of the greatest games ever 
invented by humans. I would expect all civilized young men to know the rules."
"I'm sure the boy can learn," Chiron said.
"Please," I said, "what is this place? What am I doing here? Mr. Brun-Chiron-why would you go to Yancy 
Academy just to teach me?"
Mr. D snorted. "I asked the same question."
The camp director dealt the cards. Grover flinched every time one landed in his pile.
Chiron smiled at me sympathetically, the way he used to in Latin class, as if to let me know that no 
matter what my average was, I was his star student. He expected me to have the right answer.
"Percy," he said. "Did your mother tell you nothing?'
"She said ..." I remembered her sad eyes, looking out over the sea. "She told me she was afraid to send 
me here, even though my father had wanted her to. She said that once I was here, I probably couldn't 
leave. She wanted to keep me close to her."

