they found the hollow filled with thick bushes and matted undergrowth, which somehow would not
yield to the left, but only gave way when they turned to the right; and they had to go some distance
along the bottom before they could find a way up the further bank. Each time they clambered out,
the trees seemed deeper and darker; and always to the left and upwards it was most difficult to find
a way, and they were forced to the right and downwards. sleep.
 In the dead night, Frodo lay in a dream without light. Then he saw the young moon rising; under
its thin light there loomed before him a black wall of rock, pierced by a dark arch like a great gate.
It seemed to Frodo that he was lifted up, and passing over he saw that the rock-wall was a circle of
hills, and that within it was a plain, and in the midst of the plain stood a pinnacle of stone, like a
vast tower but not made by hands. On its top stood the figure of a man. The moon as it rose seemed
to hang for a moment above his head and glistened in his white hair as the wind stirred it. Up from
the dark plain below came the crying of fell voices, and the howling of many wolves. Suddenly a
shadow, like the shape of great wings, passed across the moon. The figure lifted his arms and a
light flashed from the staff that he wielded. A mighty eagle swept down and bore him away. The
voices wailed and the wolves yammered. There was a noise like a strong wind blowing, and on it
was borne the sound of hoofs, galloping, galloping, galloping from the East. 'Black Riders!' thought
Frodo as he wakened, with the sound of the hoofs still echoing in his mind. He wondered if he
would ever again have the courage to leave the safety of these stone walls. He lay motionless, still
listening; but all was now silent, and at last he turned and fell asleep again or wandered into some
other unremembered dream.
 At his side Pippin lay dreamisleep.
 In the dead night, Frodo lay in a dream without light. Then he saw the young moon rising; under
its thin light there loomed before him a black wall of rock, pierced by a dark arch like a great gate.
It seemed to Frodo that he was lifted up, and passing over he saw that the rock-wall was a circle of
hills, and that within it was a plain, and in the midst of the plain stood a pinnacle of stone, like a
vast tower but not made by hands. On its top stood the figure of a man. The moon as it rose seemed
to hang for a moment above his head and glistened in his white hair as the wind stirred it. Up from
the dark plain below came the crying of fell voices, and the howling of many wolves. Suddenly a
shadow, like the shape of great wings, passed across the moon. The figure lifted his arms and a
light flashed from the staff that he wielded. A mighty eagle swept down and bore him away. The
voices wailed and the wolves yammered. There was a noise like a strong wind blowing, and on it
was borne the sound of hoofs, galloping, galloping, galloping from the East. 'Black Riders!' thought
Frodo as he wakened, with the sound of the hoofs still echoing in his mind. He wondered if he
would ever again have the courage to leave the safety of these stone walls. He lay motionless, still
listening; but all was now silent, and at last he turned and fell asleep again or wandered into some
other unremembered dream.
 At his side Pippin lay dreamithan enough, for it was not comfortable lore. Tom's words laid bare the hearts of trees and their
thoughts, which were often dark and strange, and filled with a hatred of things that go free upon the
earth, gnawing, biting, breaking, hacking, burning: destroyers and usurpers. It was not called the
Old Forest without reason, for it was indeed ancient, a survivor of vast forgotten woods; and in it
there lived yet, ageing no quicker than the hills, the fathers of the fathers of trees, remembering
times when they were lords. The countless years had filled them with pride and rooted wisdom, and
with malice. But none were more dangerous than the Great Willow: his heart was rotten, but his
strength was green; and he was cunning, and a master of winds, and his song and thought ran
through the woods on both sides of the river. His grey thirsty spirit drew power out of the earth and
spread like fine root-threads in the ground, and invisible twig-fingers in the air, till it had under its
dominion nearly all the trees of the Forest from the Hedge to the Downs.
 Suddenly Tom's talk left the woods and went leaping up the young stream, over bubbling
waterfalls, over pebbles and worn rocks, and among small flowers in close grass and wet crannies,
wandering at last up on to the Downs. They heard of the Great Barrows, and the green mounds, and
the stone-rings upon the hills and in the hollows among the hills. Sheep were bleating in flocks.
Green walls and white walls rose. There were fortresses on the heights. Kings of little kingdoms
fought together, and the young Sun shone like fire on the red metal of their new and greedy swords.
There was victory and defeat; and towers fell, fortresses were burned, and flames went up into the
sky. Gold was piled on the biers of dead kings and queens; and mounds covered them, and the
stone doors were shut; and the grass grew over all. Sheep walked for a while biting the grass, but
soon the hills were empty again. A shadow came out of dark places far away, and the bones were
stirred in the mounds. Barrow-wights walked in the hollow places with a clink of rings on cold
fingers, and gold chains in the wind.' Stone rings grinned out of the ground like broken teeth in the
moonlight.
 The hobbits shuddered. Even in the Shire the rumour of the Barrow-wights of the Barrow-downs
beyond the Forest had been heard. But it was not a tale that any hobbit liked to listen to, even by a
comfortable fireside far away. These four now suddenly remembered what the joy of this house had
driven from their minds: the house of Tom Bombadil nestled under the very shoulder of those
dreaded hills. They lost the thread of his tale and shifted uneasily, looking aside at one another.
 When they caught his words again they found that he had now wandered into strange regions
beyond their memory and beyond their waking thought, into limes when the world was wider, and
the seas flowed straight to the western Shore; and still on and back Tom went singing out into
ancient starlight, when only the Elf-sires were awake. Then suddenly he slopped, and they saw that
he nodded as if he was falling asleep. The hobbits sat still before him, enchanted; and it seemed as
if, under the spell of his words, the wind had gone, and the clouds had dried up, and the day had
been withdrawn, and darkness had come from East and West, and all the sky was filled with the
light of white stars.
 Whether the morning and evening of one day or of many days had passed Frodo could not tell.
He did not feel either hungry or tired, only filled with wonder. The stars shone through the window
and the silence of the heavens seemed to be round him. He spoke at last out of his wonder and a
sudden fear of that silence:
 'Who are you, Master?' he asked.
 'Eh, what?' said Tom sitting up, and his eyes glinting in the gloom. 'Don't you know my name
yet? That's the only answer. Tell me, who are you, alone, yourself and nameless? But you are
young and I am old. Eldest, that's what I am. Mark my words, my friends: Tom was here before the
river and the trees; Tom remembers the first raindrop and the first acorn. He made paths before the
Big People, and saw the little People arriving. He was here before the Kings and the graves and the
Barrow-wights. When the Elves passed westward, Tom was here already, before the seas were
bent. He knew the dark under the stars when it was fearless – before the Dark Lord came from
Outside.' A shadow seemed to pass by the window, and the hobbits glanced hastily through the panes.
When they turned again, Goldberry stood in the door behind, framed in light. She held a candle,
shielding its flame from the draught with her hand; and the light flowed through it, like sunlight
through a white shell.
 'The rain has ended,' she said; 'and new waters are running downhill, under the stars. Let us now
laugh and be glad!'
 'And let us have food and drink!' cried Tom. 'Long tales are thirsty. And long listening's hungry
work, morning, noon, and evening!' With that he jumped out of his chair, and with a bound took a
candle from the chimney-shelf and lit it in the flame that Goldberry held; then he danced about the
table. Suddenly he hopped through the door and disappeared.
 Quickly he returned, bearing a large and laden tray. Then Tom and Goldberry set the table; and
the hobbits sat half in wonder and half in laughter: so fair was the grace of Goldberry and so merry
and odd the caperings of Tom. Yet in some fashion they seemed to weave a single dance, neither
hindering the other, in and out of the room, and round about the table; and with great speed food
and vessels and lights were set in order. The boards blazed with candles, white and yellow. Tom
bowed to his guests. 'Supper is ready,' said Goldberry; and now the hobbits saw that she was
clothed all in silver with a white girdle, and her shoes were like fishes' mail. But Tom was all in
clean blue, blue as rain-washed forget-me-nots, and he had green stockings.
 It was a supper even better than before. The hobbits under the spell of Tom's words may have
missed one meal or many, but when the food was before them it seemed at least a week since they
had eaten. They did not sing or even speak much for a while, and paid close attention to business.
But after a time their hearts and spirit rose high again, and their voices rang out in mirth and
laughter.
 After they had eaten, Goldberry sang many songs for them, songs that began merrily in the hills
and fell softly down into silence; and in the silences they saw in their minds pools and waters wider
than any they had known, and looking into them they saw the sky below them and the stars like
jewels in the depths. Then once more she wished them each good night and left them by the
fireside. But Tom now seemed wide awake and plied them with questions.
 He appeared already to know much about them and all their families, and indeed to know much
of all the history and doings of the Shire down from days hardly remembered among the hobbits
themselves. It no longer surprised them; but he made no secret that he owed his recent knowledge
largely to Farmer Maggot, whom he seemed to regard as a person of more importance than they
had imagined. 'There's earth under his old feet, and clay on his fingers; wisdom in his bones, and
both his eyes are open,' said Tom. It was also clear that Tom had dealings with the Elves, and it
seemed that in some fashion, news had reached him from Gildor concerning the flight of Frodo.
 Indeed so much did Tom know, and so cunning was his questioning, that Frodo found himself
telling him more about Bilbo and his own hopes and fears than he had told before even to Gandalf.
Tom wagged his head up and down, and there was a glint in his eyes when he heard of the Riders.
 'Show me the precious Ring!' he said suddenly in the midst of the story: and Frodo, to his own
astonishment, drew out the chain from his pocket, and unfastening the Ring handed it at once to
Tom.
 It seemed to grow larger as it lay for a moment on his big brown-skinned hand. Then suddenly
he put it to his eye and laughed. For a second the hobbits had a vision, both comical and alarming,
of his bright blue eye gleaming through a circle of gold. Then Tom put the Ring round the end of
his little finger and held it up to the candlelight. For a moment the hobbits noticed nothing strange
about this. Then they gasped. There was no sign of Tom disappearing!
 Tom laughed again, and then he spun the Ring in the air – and it vanished with a flash. Frodo
gave a cry – and Tom leaned forward and handed it back to him with a smile.
 Frodo looked at it closely, and rather suspiciously (like one who has lent a trinket to a juggler).
It was the same Ring, or looked the same and weighed the same: for that Ring had always seemedto Frodo to weigh strangely heavy in the hand. But something prompted him to make sure. He was
perhaps a trifle annoyed with Tom for seeming to make so light of what even Gandalf thought so
perilously important. He waited for an opportunity, when the talk was going again, and Tom was
telling an absurd story about badgers and their queer ways – then he slipped the Ring on.
 Merry turned towards him to say something and gave a start, and checked an exclamation. Frodo
was delighted (in a way): it was his own ring all right, for Merry was staring blankly at his chair,
and obviously could not see him. He got up and crept quietly away from the fireside towards the
outer door.
 'Hey there!' cried Tom, glancing towards him with a most seeing look in his shining eyes. 'Hey!
Come Frodo, there! Where be you a-going? Old Tom Bombadil's not as blind as that yet. Take off
your golden ring! Your hand's more fair without it. Come back! Leave your game and sit down
beside me! We must talk a while more, and think about the morning. Tom must teach the right
road, and keep your feet from wandering.'
 Frodo laughed (trying to feel pleased), and taking off the Ring he came and sat down again.
Tom now told them that he reckoned the Sun would shine tomorrow, and it would be a glad
morning, and setting out would be hopeful. But they would do well to start early; for weather in
that country was a thing that even Tom could not be sure of for long, and it would change
sometimes quicker than he could change his jacket. 'I am no weather-master,' he said; 'nor is aught
that goes on two legs.'
 By his advice they decided to make nearly due North from his house, over the western and
lower slopes of the Downs: they might hope in that way to strike the East Road in a day's journey,
and avoid the Barrows. He told them not to be afraid – but to mind their own business.
 'Keep to the green grass. Don't you go a-meddling with old stone or cold Wights or prying in
their houses, unless you be strong folk with hearts that never falter!' He said this more than once;
and he advised them to pass barrows by on the west-side, if they chanced to stray near one. Then he
taught them a rhyme to sing, if they should by ill-luck fall into any danger or difficulty the next
dayBut though his fear was so great that it seemed to be part of the very darkness that was round
him, he found himself as he lay thinking about Bilbo Baggins and his stories, of their jogging along
together in the lanes of the Shire and talking about roads and adventures. There is a seed of courage
hidden (often deeply, it is true) in the heart of the fattest and most timid hobbit, wailing for some
final and desperate danger to make it grow. Frodo was neither very fat nor very timid; indeed,
though he did not know it, Bilbo (and Gandalf) had thought him the best hobbit in the Shire. He
thought he had come to the end of his adventure, and a terrible end, but the thought hardened him.
He found himself stiffening, as if for a final spring; he no longer felt limp like a helpless prey.
 As he lay there, thinking and getting a hold of himself, he noticed all at once that the darkness
was slowly giving way: a pale greenish light was growing round him. It did not at first show him
what kind of a place he was in, for the light seemed to be coming out of himself, and from the floor
beside him, and had not yet reached the roof or wall. He turned, and there in the cold glow he saw
lying beside him Sam, Pippin, and Merry. They were on their backs, and their faces looked deathly
pale; and they were clad in white. About them lay many treasures, of gold maybe, though in that
light they looked cold and unlovely. On their heads were circlets, gold chains were about their
waists, and on their fingers were many rings. Swords lay by their sides, and shields were at their
feet. But across their three necks lay one long naked sword.
 Suddenly a song began: a cold murmur, rising and falling. The voice seemed far away and
immeasurably dreary, sometimes high in the air and thin, sometimes like a low moan from the
ground. Out of the formless stream of sad but horrible sounds, strings of words would now and
again shape themselves: grim, hard, cold words, heartless and miserable. The night was railing
against the morning of which it was bereaved, and the cold was cursing the warmth for which it
hungered. Frodo was chilled to the marrow. After a while the song became clearer, and with dread
in his heart he perceived that it had changed into an incantation: He heard behind his head a creaking and scraping sound. Raising himself on one arm he looked,
and saw now in the pale light that they were in a kind of passage which behind them turned a
corner. Round the corner a long arm was groping, walking on its fingers towards Sam, who was
lying nearest, and towards the hilt of the sword that lay upon him.
 At first Frodo felt as if he had indeed been turned into stone by the incantation. Then a wild
thought of escape came to him. He wondered if he put on the Ring, whether the Barrow-wight
would miss him, and he might find some way out. He thought of himself running free over the
grass, grieving for Merry, and Sam, and Pippin, but free and alive himself. Gandalf would admit
that there had been nothing else he could do.
 But the courage that had been awakened in him was now too strong: he could not leave his
friends so easily. He wavered, groping in his pocket, and then fought with himself again; and as hedid so the arm crept nearer. Suddenly resolve hardened in him, and he seized a short sword that lay
beside him, and kneeling he stooped low over the bodies of his companions. With what strength he
had he hewed at the crawling arm near the wrist, and the hand broke off; but at the same moment
the sword splintered up to the hilt. There was a shriek and the light vanished. In the dark there was
a snarling noise.
 Frodo fell forward over Merry, and Merry's face felt cold. All at once back into his mind, from
which it had disappeared with the first coming of the fog, came the memory of the house down
under the Hill, and of Tom singing. He remembered the rhyme that Tom had taught them. In a
small desperate voice he began: _Ho! Tom Bombadil!_ and with that name his voice seemed to
grow strong: it had a full and lively sound, and the dark chamber echoed as if to drum and trumpet. Though Frodo looked about him on every side he saw no sign of the great stones standing like a
gate, and before long they came to the northern gap and rode swiftly through, and the land fell
away before them. It was a merry journey with Tom Bombadil trotting gaily beside them, or before
them, on Fatty Lumpkin, who could move much faster than his girth promised. Tom sang most of
the time, but it was chiefly nonsense, or else perhaps a strange language unknown to the hobbits, an
ancient language whose words were mainly those of wonder and delight.
 They went forward steadily, but they soon saw that the Road was further away than they had
imagined. Even without a fog, their sleep at mid-day would have prevented them from reaching it
until after nightfall on the day before. The dark line they had seen was not a line of trees but a line
of bushes growing on the edge of a deep dike with a steep wall on the further side. Tom said that it
had once been the boundary of a kingdom, but a very long lime ago. He seemed to remember
something sad about it, and would not say much.
 They climbed down and out of the dike and through a gap in the wall, and then Tom turned due
north, for they had been bearing somewhat to the west. The land was now open and fairly level, and
they quickened their pace, but the sun was already sinking low when at last they saw a line of tall
trees ahead, and they knew that they had come back to the Road after many unexpected adventures.
They galloped their ponies over the last furlongs, and halted under the long shadows of the trees.
They were on the top of a sloping bank, and the Road, now dim as evening drew on, wound away
below them. At this point it ran nearly from South-west to North-east, and on their right it fell
quickly down into a wide hollow. It was rutted and bore many signs of the recent heavy rain; there
were pools and pot-holes full of water. They rode down the bank and looked up and down. There
was nothing to be seen. 'Well, here we are again at last!' said Frodo. 'I suppose we haven't lost more
than two days by my short cut through the Forest! But perhaps the delay will prove useful – it may
have put them off our trail.'
 The others looked at him. The shadow of the fear of the Black Riders came suddenly over them
again. Ever since they had entered the Forest they had thought chiefly of getting back to the Road;
only now when it lay beneath their feet did they remember the danger which pursued them, and was
more than likely to be lying in wait for them upon the Road itself. They looked anxiously back
towards the setting sun, but the Road was brown and empty.
 'Do you think,' asked Pippin hesitatingly, 'do you think we may be pursued, tonight?'
 'No, I hope not tonight,' answered Tom Bombadil; 'nor perhaps the next day. But do not trust my
guess; for I cannot tell for certain. Out east my knowledge fails. Tom is not master of Riders from
the Black Land far beyond his country.'
 All the same the hobbits wished he was coming with them. They felt that he would know how to
deal with Black Riders, if anyone did. They would soon now be going forward into lands wholly
strange to them, and beyond all but the most vague and distant legends of the Shire, and in the
gathering twilight they longed for home. A deep loneliness and sense of loss was on them. They
stood silent, reluctant to make the final parting, and only slowly became aware that Tom was
wishing them farewell, and telling them to have good heart and to ride on till dark without halting. 'Tom will give you good advice, till this day is over (after that your own luck must go with you
and guide you): four miles along the Road you'll come upon a village, Bree under Bree-hill, with
doors looking westward. There you'll find an old inn that is called _The Prancing Pony._ Barliman
Butterbur is the worthy keeper. There you can stay the night, and afterwards the morning will speed
you upon your way. Be bold, but wary! Keep up your merry hearts, and ride to meet your fortune!'
 They begged him to come at least as far as the inn and drink once more with them; but he
laughed and refused, saying: The company was in the big common-room of the inn. The gathering was large and mixed, as
Frodo discovered, when his eyes got used to the light. This came chiefly from a blazing log-fire, for
the three lamps hanging from the beams were dim, and half veiled in smoke. Barliman Butterbur
was standing near the fire, talking to a couple of dwarves and one or two strange-looking men. On
the benches were various folk: men of Bree, a collection of local hobbits (sitting chattering
together), a few more dwarves, and other vague figures difficult to make out away in the shadows
and comers.
 As soon as the Shire-hobbits entered, there was a chorus of welcome from the Bree-landers. The
strangers, especially those that had come up the Greenway, stared at them curiously. The landlord
introduced the newcomers to the Bree-folk, so quickly that, though they caught many names, they
were seldom sure who the names belonged to. The Men of Bree seemed all to have rather botanical
(and to the Shire-folk rather odd) names, like Rushlight, Goatleaf, Heathertoes, Appledore,
Thistlewool and Ferny (not to mention Butterbur). Some of the hobbits had similar names. The
Mugworts, for instance, seemed numerous. But most of them had natural names, such as Banks,
Brockhouse, Longholes, Sandheaver, and Tunnelly, many of which were used in the Shire. There
were several Underhills from Saddle, and as they could not imagine sharing a name without being
related, they took Frodo to their hearts as a long-lost cousin.
 The Bree-hobbits were, in fact, friendly and inquisitive, and Frodo soon found that some
explanation of what he was doing would have to be given. He gave out that he was interested in
history and geography (at which there was much wagging of heads, although neither of these words
were much used in the Bree-dialect). He said he was thinking of writing a book (at which there was
silent astonishment), _and_ that he and his friends wanted to collect information about hobbits
living outside the Shire, especially in the eastern lands.
 At this a chorus of voices broke out. If Frodo had really wanted to write a book, and had had
many ears, he would have learned enough for several chapters in a few minutes. And if that was not
enough, he was given a whole list of names, beginning with 'Old Barliman here', to whom he could
go for further information. But after a time, as Frodo did not show any _sign_ of writing a book on
the spot, the hobbits returned to their questions about doings in the Shire. Frodo did not prove very
communicative, and he soon found himself sitting alone in a comer, listening and looking around.
 The Men and Dwarves were mostly talking of distant events and telling flews of a kind that was
becoming only too familiar. There was trouble away in the South, and it seemed that the Men who
had come up the Greenway were on the move, looking for lands where they could find some peace.
The Bree-folk were sympathetic, but plainly not very ready to take a large number of strangers into
their little land. One of the travellers, a squint-eyed ill-favoured fellow, was foretelling that more
and more people would be coming north in the near future. 'If room isn't found for them, they'll find
it for themselves. They've a right to live, same as other folk,' he said loudly. The local inhabitants
did not look pleased at the prospect. The hobbits did not pay much attention to all this, and it did not at the moment seem to concern
hobbits. Big Folk could hardly beg for lodgings in hobbit-holes. They were more interested in Sam
and Pippin, who were now feeling quite at home, and were chatting gaily about events in the Shire.
Pippin roused a good deal of laughter with an account of the collapse of the roof of the Town Hole
in Michel Delving: Will Whitfoot, the Mayor, and the fattest hobbit in the Westfarthing, had been
buried in chalk, and came out like a floured dumpling. But there were several questions asked that
made Frodo a little uneasy. One of the Bree-landers, who seemed to have been in the Shire several
times, wanted to know where the Underhills lived and who they were related to.
 Suddenly Frodo noticed that a strange-looking weather-beaten man, sitting in the shadows near
the wall, was also listening intently to the hobbit-talk. He had a tall tankard in front of him, and was
smoking a long-stemmed pipe curiously carved. His legs were stretched out before him, showing
high boots of supple leather that fitted him well, but had seen much wear and were now caked with
mud. A travel-stained cloak of heavy dark-green cloth was drawn close about him, and in spite of
the heat of the room he wore a hood that overshadowed his face; but the gleam of his eyes could be
seen as he watched the hobbits.
 'Who is that?' Frodo asked, when he got a chance to whisper to Mr. Butterbur. 'I don't think you
introduced him?'
 'Him?' said the landlord in an answering whisper, cocking an eye without turning his head. 'I
don't rightly know. He is one of the wandering folk -Rangers we call them. He seldom talks: not but
what he can tell a rare tale when he has the mind. He disappears for a month, or a year, and then he
pops up again. He was in and out pretty often last spring; but I haven't seen him about lately. What
his right name is I've never heard: but he's known round here as Strider. Goes about at a great pace
on his long shanks; though he don't tell nobody what cause he has to hurry. But there's no
accounting for East and West, as we say in Bree, meaning the Rangers and the Shire-folk, begging
your pardon. Funny you should ask about him.' But at that moment Mr. Butterbur was called away
by a demand for more ale and his last remark remained unexplained.