He shows me both his palms in a what’d-I-do? gesture.
“Let’s go,” I say to him. To Magda, I say, “See you later. Good luck with your waxing.”
She glares at me as I hurry after Sarah, Gavin hot on my heels. “Not everyone is naturally fair
like you, Heather, you know,” Magda calls after us hotly. “Some of us need a little extra
help!”
Out in the front lobby, we find that Sarah has already thrust herself in the middle of the tight
circle of college administrators that’s formed around Detective Canavan, and is insisting,
“…so you just need to get in touch with her at her parents’ house as soon as possible. We can
of course give you that information if it will help at all with your investigation—”
Detective Canavan, seeing me approaching, gives me a help-me look over the top of Sarah’s
head. “Right,” he says, to Sarah. “We’ll get right on that.”
“Sarah,” I say, gently.
“Here, why don’t I just go get it for you right now.” Sarah turns around and starts heading
back for the residence hall director’s office. “I assume it’s all right for us to go back into our
office now, right?”
“Uh,” Detective Canavan says. “Yes. The crime scene is clear.”
  
“The crime scene.” Sarah laughs. There’s nothing humorous in the sound, however. “Right.
I’ll just go get you Jamie’s home address and be right back. Don’t go anywhere.”
She hurries away, her long hair flying behind her. Dr. Jessup, still standing in front of
Detective Canavan, gives me a look. “What’s this about a resident knowing something about
Dr. Veatch’s murder, Heather?” he wants to know.
“I don’t know,” I say. “It’s just something another resident overheard. It could be
nothing…just a rumor.”
“Hey,” Gavin says indignantly. I elbow him, and he quiets down.
“I’ll have someone get in touch with this, er, Price girl,” Detective Canavan says. “But the
evidence against Blumenthal is pretty convincing.”
“And may I ask what that evidence is?” I want to know.
“You may,” Detective Canavan replies, with a smile, “but that doesn’t mean I’m going to tell
you.”
Dr. Jessup, overhearing this conversation, laughs heartily. But there’s nothing sincerely
humorous in the sound.
“I guess Heather’s been working here for so long she’s starting to consider herself an expert
in homicide,” he says loudly—but not loudly enough to be overheard by any of the students
who might be milling around.
“Yes, well,” Detective Canavan says, “this building does seem to see more than its fair share
of manslaughters.”
Dr. Jessup looks slightly queasy upon hearing this, as if regretting having brought up the
subject in the first place.
“Here.” Sarah comes running back, out of breath, a slip of paper in her hand. “Here it is,
Detective. Jamie Price’s home address and phone number. This is where she is. Or where she
will be. So you’ll go question her?”
“Sure thing,” Detective Canavan says, taking the slip of paper, folding it in half, and putting
it in his pocket. “Now, if you people don’t mind, I have places to be, things to do…”
“Of course, of course,” Dr. Jessup says, laying a hand on the detective’s back. “Just one more
thing…”
The two men step from the lobby, followed by the rest of the housing administrators, as well
as Reverend Mark and, of course, Muffy Fowler.
Sarah looks at me. She’s still panting.
“He’s not going to ask Jamie what she knows, is he?” she asks.
  
“I don’t know, Sarah,” I say. “Maybe. Probably not right away. He says whatever evidence
they have against Sebastian is pretty convincing.”
Sarah’s eyes are wet again. “Then Gavin’s right,” she says. “We’ve just got to go and ask her
ourselves.”
“Sarah,” I say. “I really don’t think that’s a very good idea.”
“A man’s life is at stake,” Sarah insists.
“I’m with Sarah,” Gavin says. “Plus, I think Jamie needs us.”
“Sebastian needs us,” Sarah corrects him.
I look at the ceiling. “This is not happening.”
“And,” Sarah goes on, “there’s no need to rent a car. I know someone who has
one…someone I’m sure will be happy to help us.”
I look at her curiously. “You do? Who?”
10
November turned out to be a friend
But December still finds me alone again
“Calendar Boys”
Written by Heather Wells
“No,” Cooper says.
I’m not surprised. They’ve ambushed him, following me home and—despite my assurances
that it’s going to go down this way—insisting he’ll let them borrow his precious and tenderly
restored BMW ’74 2002.
Yeah. Because that’s about as likely to happen as my getting up every morning to run a 5K.
For the fun of it.
Still. They’re standing in his second floor office, where he has the window wide open to let in
the late-afternoon breeze, stray random bullet from the park be damned.
“Cooper,” Sarah says. “You don’t understand. This is an emergency. A young man’s life may
be at stake.”
  
“Take the train,” Cooper says. He’s sitting with his feet on his stupendously messy desk,
going through his mail in a bored sort of way. Cooper is usually very tidy in his personal
life—he keeps the public areas of his house and even his bedroom almost obsessively neat
most of the time.
But his office and car are another story. I can’t understand it. Often it looks like a tornado
ripped through both—papers, cheese-smeared burger wrappers, wadded-up napkins, empty
coffee cups, Post-it notes with cryptic writing on them, piles of them, everywhere.
Periodically he goes through both—the office and the car—and cleans them beyond
recognition to sparkling and spartan neatness. Then he starts letting things pile up again. He
claims this is how he stays “organized.”
It’s really a good thing that he has me to do his billing, actually, or he’d have no money at all
coming in, seeing as how he’d never even be able to find his clients’ statements, let alone
send them out on time.
“Sure,” Gavin says. He’s looking at a fly that’s just landed on a particularly cheesy-looking
wrapper from Johnny Rockets that’s sitting on top of one of Cooper’s office stereo speakers.
“We could take the train. But how are we supposed to get from the train station to Jamie’s
house? Huh?”
“Easy,” Cooper says, casually flipping an announcement from Publishers Clearing House that
he may be a million-dollar winner onto the parquet floor. “It’s called a cab.”
“I don’t even know if they HAVE cabs in Rock Ridge,” Sarah cries. “In fact, I very much
doubt it fits in with their town plan.”
“Tough break, kid,” Cooper says. “Guess you’re gonna have to rent a car.”
“You have to be over twenty-five to rent a car in New York,” Gavin points out.
Cooper looks up from the Victoria’s Secret catalog he’s found beneath the rest of his mail.
“Well, what do you know?” he says. “Heather, aren’t you over twenty-five? Oh, but wait…I
believe you and I already had a little talk about you getting involved in this particular murder
investigation this morning, didn’t we?”
I scowl at the tops of my shoes. I get where he’s coming from. I really do. But he doesn’t
have to be so insufferably pedantic about it.
“You guys,” I say to Sarah and Gavin. “Cooper is right. The police don’t need our help. We
should probably stay out of this.”
“But Sebastian didn’t do it!” Sarah shrieks.
“Then he has nothing to worry about,” Cooper says calmly, as he hands the Victoria’s Secret
catalog to my dog, Lucy. Since she’s been sitting beside him this whole time, patiently
waiting for exactly this moment, she lets out a happy doggie gurgle, then slides to her belly
and sets to work, methodically ripping the catalog to shreds, and adding to the general
detritus already lining Cooper’s floor.
  
Sarah does not seem particularly soothed by Cooper’s assurance. In fact, it seems to have the
complete opposite effect on her. She flops down onto the paperwork-strewn couch across
from his desk (fortunately Cooper has an outer office in which he receives clients, and which
he keeps scrupulously neat. Were they to see this, the inner sanctum, doubtless his client list
would shrink significantly through lack of confidence in his detecting abilities—primarily his
ability to find anything in his own office, such as his clients), and, hugging herself, begins to
rock back and forth, her gaze fixed on the floor. She appears to be making a slight keening
noise.
Cooper eyes her as warily if she were a cheeseburger he’d ordered well done that had arrived
medium rare.
Gavin takes this opportunity to announce, “This…this is bullshit.” Then he pivots around on
his heel and leaves the brownstone, banging the front door noisily behind him. I hurry to
Cooper’s open window and lean out from it just in time to see him run down the front stoop
and head toward Sixth Avenue, his shoulders hunched, his fists buried in the pockets of his
jeans.
“Gavin,” I call after him. “Wait! Where are you going?”
Gavin’s shoulders tense, but he doesn’t respond. He doesn’t even turn his head, even though I
know he’s heard me. Every drug dealer on the corner has turned and cried, “Oh, hey,
Heather!” in a pleasant way.
Kids.
I wave to the drug dealers, then duck back into Cooper’s office.
“I don’t get it,” I say, to the room in general. “Where does he think he’s going?”
“Where do you think?” Sarah says, bitterly, from the couch. “He’s going to see her.”
I blink at her. “He is? Why?”
“Why do you think?” Sarah demands wildly, shoving a wave of thick dark hair from her face
to glare at me. “God, when did you get so dense? Are you blind? Jamie Price looks exactly
like you. Except, you know. Younger.”
Too shocked to know how to reply to this, I opt for saying nothing. For a second or two, the
room is silent, save for the sound of Lucy’s contented licking, shredding, and chewing. Then
Cooper says, “Ooookay. So when exactly did we all hop on the train to crazy town?”
Sarah heaves a shuddering sigh, then says in a small voice, careful not to meet either of our
gazes, “Look. I’ve got to talk to Sebastian.”
We both glance at her. Slowly, she raises her gaze from the floor.
“They let them have visitors?” she asks, looking suddenly much younger than her twenty-two
years. “In jail? Right?”
  
“With suspected coconspirators,” Cooper says, “in order to get their stories straight? Yeah,
not so much.”
I swing around to stare at Cooper in shock, just as Sarah sucks in her breath…and promptly
bursts into tears again.
“How—how c-could you?” she cries. “I never—you have to know I would n-never—” She
breaks down into loud, hic-cupping sobs, burying her face into the arm of the sofa.
I give Cooper a sour look. He stares at Sarah in astonishment, then looks up at me. “What’d I
say?” he wants to know.
“Don’t give me that,” I growl at him. “You know exactly what you said. Suspected
coconspirators, my ass. Sarah.” I cross the room to sink down beside her on the couch, then
try to gather some of her copious hair from her eyes. “Sarah, he didn’t mean it that way. He
didn’t mean he thinks you’re a coconspirator. He meant that from the prosecutor’s
perspective, that’s how it might seem if you were to ask to see Sebastian right now—”
“Oh, Heather, you’re home.”
With his usual perfect timing, my father appears in the doorway. He’s holding a large
cardboard box of his belongings. My dad’s been moving out, slowly but surely, for the past
week.
When he notices Sarah, and her theatrical sobs, his happy grin that I’m home from work
fades, and he says, “Oh dear. I see this isn’t a good time. I did hear the news, you know.
About your boss. Such a shame. People do seem to die at an alarming rate at your place of
work, Heather. I don’t believe in that sort of thing, of course, but if I were a superstitious
man, I might almost start to suspect that Fischer Hall is, in fact, cursed.”
Lucy, seeing my dad, gets up from her now almost completely shredded magazine, and, her
tail wagging, goes over to give him a lick on the hand.
“Oh, hello, Lucy,” he says. “Not now, dear. We’ll have our walk in a little while. I have to
get this box uptown. Which reminds me, Heather, when you have a moment, there’s
something I need to speak to you about. A little business proposal Larry and I have been
meaning to discuss with you. It could work out to be quite advantageous for all three of us.
It’s something I think you’ll quite like, actually. But, er, I can see now is not quite the
time…”
As Sarah’s sobs rise in volume, Dad flings a questioning look in Cooper’s direction, since
I’m obviously too busy trying to stanch the flow of Sarah’s tears to reply.
“My fault,” Cooper says, indicating Sarah. “I’m a heartless cad. Insensitive, too.”
“Oh,” Dad says, nodding. “Yes, of course. I’ve always liked that about you. Uh, Heather?”
I look up from rubbing Sarah’s back. “Yes, Dad?”
  
“Tad called. Apparently he’s been trying to reach you on your cell phone. He’d like you to
call him back. Just wants to see if you’re all right, considering…well, all that’s happened.”
“Thanks, Dad.”
“Well.” He gives one last look at the stricken figure beside me on the couch, then shrugs. “I
think this will be my last night here at the brownstone. If there are no objections, I’d like to
make braised short ribs for dinner for all of you. I have them marinating now. I assume you’ll
both be home for dinner?”
Cooper and I nod. Dad looks pleased.
“Excellent,” he says. “I’ll see you around eight o’clock then. You, too, Lucy.” To Sarah, he
says, “You’re welcome to stay for dinner, as well, young lady. Hopefully you’ll be, er,
feeling better by then. Plenty for everyone. Well. Bye, now.”
And off he goes. Lucy, disappointed he didn’t take her with him, goes sulkily back to ripping
Giselle Bündchen’s face off. Cooper’s gaze strays out the window, at the pinkening sky, just
visible over the roofs of the brownstones across the street. Sarah’s sobs, meanwhile, have
slowed. She seems to be mellowing a bit, if the way she’s wiping her nose on her sleeve is
any indication. I look around for a box of tissues…then remember where I am.
I manage to find a pile of napkins from Dunkin’ Donuts that don’t look too used. I pass them
to her. Sarah raises her head, takes the napkin wad, then blows her nose. Then she looks at
Cooper, and, hatred—it’s hard to mistake—glittering in her eyes, says, “I had nothing to do
with Owen’s murder.”
“I didn’t say you did,” Cooper says. He’s taken his feet off his desk, and is clacking away at
his keyboard, apparently Googling something. Knowing Cooper, it’s probably Giselle
Bündchen.
“You called me a coconspirator!” Sarah cries.
“What Heather said,” Cooper says, still not turning from his computer monitor.
“It’s true, Sarah,” I say. “They’re not going to let you talk to Sebastian. I doubt he’s even
allowed to have visitors, aside from his lawyer. Besides, he’s probably not even in Manhattan
anymore. He’s probably at Rikers by now.”
“Rikers!” Sarah echoes, with a horrified gasp.
“The Tombs,” Cooper corrects me, still not turning around. “They’ll have transferred him to
Manhattan Detention Center from the Sixth Precinct by now.” He glances at the time on his
monitor. “Or maybe not. He’ll go to Rikers in the morning, for sure, though.”
“He can’t,” Sarah says, jumping to her feet. Her eyes are wide with panic. “He can’t go to
Rikers. You don’t understand. He has asthma! He has allergies!”
  
Cooper finally spins around in his computer chair. His expression, when he faces Sarah, is
furious. He looks…well. He looks scary. Like he had this morning when he’d warned me
about interfering in Owen Veatch’s murder investigation.
“Okay,” he says, angrily. “That’s it. I’ve had it up to here with this bullshit, Sarah. You tell
me what the fuck is going on, or you get out of my house. No”—when Sar ah glances for help
in my direction—“don’t look at Heather. You look at me. Tell me, or get out. I’m giving you
until the count of three. One.”
“He didn’t do it!” Sarah cries.
“I know he didn’t do it. Tell me how you can prove it. Two.”
“Because I just know! I know him!”
“That’s not good enough for the DA to drop the charges, Sarah. Three. Get the fuck—”
“He couldn’t have done it because Owen Veatch was shot from outside the building,” Sarah
shouts. “And I can prove Sebastian was inside Fischer Hall at the time Owen was killed!”
“How can you possibly do that?” Cooper demands.
“Because,” Sarah says, her round cheeks suddenly going crimson. “I…I signed him in, the
night before.”
“You what?”
I feel my blood run cold. But in a good way.
“She signed him in,” I say, rising from the couch and crossing the room to stand beside
Sarah, pieces of Victoria’s Secret catalog crunching beneath my feet. “The sign-in logs, at the
security desk. All guests to the building have to be signed in, and leave a piece of ID with the
guard. What time did you sign Sebastian out this morning, Sarah?”
She shakes her head. “Late. After breakfast. It was like eight forty-five.”
I throw a triumphant look at Cooper. “After the murder could have taken place. Don’t you
see? That proves he couldn’t have done it. The guard wouldn’t have let him out of the
building without signing out. He couldn’t have done it.”
Cooper, however, is frowning.
“I don’t get it,” he says. “If this is all true, why didn’t the kid tell the cops when they asked
him where he was at the time of the murder? Why didn’t he show them the sign-in log?”
“Because,” Sarah says, looking unhappy. “He…he was protecting someone.”
“Who?” I demand. “Who could he possibly—”
  
“Me, all right?” Sarah can’t seem to lift her gaze from the floor. “He’s…he was protecting
me.”
Cooper, with a happy sigh, leans back again in his office chair, causing it to squeak. “And
here I thought chivalry was dead.”
“It’s not like that,” Sarah says quickly, lifting her gaze, her cheeks flaming once more.
“We’re not—we’ve never—”
I give her a curious look. “But, Sarah—then why else could he be protecting you?”
“I…I’d rather not say,” Sarah says. “Can’t we just bring him the sign-in sheets? Detective
Canavan, I mean?”
“What were you doing all night,” Cooper wants to know, “if you weren’t having carnal
knowledge of one another? I mean, if you’ll excuse my curiosity? Because I can assure you,
Canavan will ask.”
“No, we can’t just bring him the sign-in sheets,” I say testily, in reply to Sarah’s question. “I
want to know. What’s Sebastian protecting you from, Sarah? What—”
“And were you actually with him at eight o’clock?” Cooper asks. “You said you signed him
out at eight forty-five. But were you with him the entire time from when you signed him in
the night before until you signed him out this morning?”
“Would you two,” Sarah shouts, sounding like she was going to start crying again, “stop
talking at the same time? It’s so frustrating! You’re like my PARENTS!”
This brings Cooper and me up short. We close our mouths and blink at one another. Parents?
“No, I wasn’t with him the whole time,” Sarah says. “And it isn’t anyone’s business what we
were doing—”
“But, Sarah,” I interrupt, getting over the parent thing. Because, whatever. That’s her opinion.
And did I mention her frizzies? “You know that when you sign someone in, it’s your
responsibility to stay with them the whole—”
“You think you can waltz into the Sixth Precinct and tell them something is none of their
business when they ask?” Cooper hoots delightedly. “Because I really want to be there when
you do that.”
Then, like a sledgehammer, it hits me.
“The coffeemaker!” I cry, pointing at Sarah accusingly.
Both Cooper and Sarah stare at me as if I’ve begun speaking in tongues. Sarah’s the only one
who looks slightly nervous, though.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” she says.
  
“Oh yes, you do,” I say, still pointing at her. “The storage room. Where we sat while we were
waiting for the forensics team to get through with our office. I thought the guys from
housekeeping were using it as a break room. There was a sleeping bag in there. And a
coffeemaker. Someone has obviously been crashing in there. But it wasn’t the building staff.
It’s Sebastian, isn’t it? You’ve been signing Sebastian in and letting him live there illegally,
haven’t you? Haven’t you?”
Sarah, with a shudder, buries her face in her hands. She doesn’t reply.
But she doesn’t have to. Her body language says it all.
“No wonder Sebastian didn’t tell the cops where he was when Owen bit it,” I go on. “He
couldn’t! Because he knew he’d get you in trouble, and you’d lose your job for letting a
student live in the building illegally. Sarah! What were you thinking? Have you lost your
mind?”
Sarah drops her hands and glares at me.
“It’s not Sebastian’s fault!” she cries. “It was my idea! And it was all the stupid Housing
Department’s fault in the first place! He requested a roommate who kept kosher! And what
did he get? A California surfer who checked off kosher because it was the more expensive
meal plan and he thought that meant the food would be better! He didn’t even know what
kosher was. And then when Sebastian went to his hall director to ask for a room change, he
was told there was nothing available. What was he supposed to do? Compromise his religious
values?”
“No,” Cooper says. “Apparently he preferred to compromise your job instead.”
Sarah inhales so sharply that her breath hitches. A second later, she’s hyperventilating.
Fortunately I find an abandoned Starbucks sack lying nearby and, after pushing her back
down on the couch again, force Sarah to breathe into it for a few minutes. Soon she’s
breathing normally once more.
Sitting between Cooper and me, staring sadly at the last page of the Victoria’s Secret catalog
as Lucy devours it, Sarah says, “I guess I’m the biggest idiot in the world, aren’t I?”
“Not the biggest,” Cooper offers.
“We don’t have to tell them how long you let him stay there,” I say. “We can just say it was
for that one night.”
“No.” Sarah shakes her head, so violently that her long, bushy hair nearly whips both of us. “I
was the one who was blinded by love. Not even real love, because it’s not as if he cares about
me as anything more than a friend. Like a guy like that ever could love a girl like me.”
“Stranger things,” Cooper says dryly, “have happened. Especially after a night or two in the
Tombs. He might emerge with a new appreciation for the fairer sex in general.”
I long to elbow him, but Sarah is in the way.
  
I needn’t have worried. She’s not listening, anyway.
“I abused my power as a resident hall graduate assistant,” Sarah says. “I lied, and took
advantage of my sign-in and key privileges. I’ll turn myself in.”
“Not for nothing,” Cooper says. “But to whom? Your boss is dead.”
“Yeah,” I say. “And my inclination is to chalk it up to temporary insanity. Spring fever, as it
were.”
“I’ll never speak to him again,” Sarah says. “After we’ve turned over the sign-in log and I’ve
given my deposition. And the GSC has gotten the president’s office to cave to all of our
demands. And I’ve found him safe but affordable housing elsewhere. And made sure he’s
received proper psychiatric counseling for whatever post-traumatic stress he might suffer
from all of this.”
“That’s the spirit,” Cooper says, encouragingly.
“Of course,” Sarah says, as the three of us head back toward Fischer Hall to pick up the sign-
in sheets and take them over to Detective Canavan’s office, thus speeding the release of the
man with whom Sarah claims most emphatically to no longer be in love with. “It would be
much better if we could just figure out who really did kill Owen. Not just for Sebastian,” she
adds, hastily. “But so everything could go back to normal.” Cooper and I exchange glances.
“Yes,” I say. “It would.”
11
Walking with my baby in t he park
Past the dog run
And the young at heart
“Lucy’s Song”
Written by Heather Wells
Detective Canavan is less than impressed by the sign-in sheets we present him with forty-five
minutes later—possibly because he’s tired after a long day of work, and just wants to go
home (welcome to the club).
But also because, as he points out, they don’t exactly represent an iron-clad alibi, since
anyone can sneak past a college security guard, shoot an interim residence hall director in the
head, then sneak back.
  
I inform him that his lack of faith in New York College’s crackerjack security force is jarring,
a remark to which he responds not at all…except to mention the small matter of the handgun
they found in Sebastian’s murse.
“Handgun?” Sarah scoffs. “Don’t be ridiculous. Sebastian doesn’t own a gun. He’s a pacifist.
He believes violence is never the answer. It doesn’t solve anything.”
Detective Canavan snorts at this.
“A pacifist who carries around an unlicensed thirty-eight.”
Since this also happens to be the same caliber bullet that mowed through Owen Veatch’s
skull at the time for which Sebastian has no credible alibi, he’s the murder’s number one—
and only—suspect. A ballistics test will tell the police if the gun is, in fact, the same one used
to dispatch my boss. The sign-in sheets, if anything, only serve to solidify the case against
Sebastian, since it gives the NYPD their first solid proof that Sebastian was actually on the
premises at the time of the murder.
Um. Oops?
Sarah, when we walk out of the precinct and onto West Tenth Street, has been rendered
visibly pale by all of this.
“Look,” I say to her, fearing she’s going to hyperventilate again, and furtively scanning the
sidewalks for abandoned paper bags I can force her to breathe into. “It’s going to be all right.
I’m sure he’s gotten in touch with his parents by now. They’ll get him a good lawyer. He’ll
get arraigned, they’ll post bail, and he’ll be out by tomorrow morning.”
Cooper makes a noise when I say this, but I shoot him a warning look, and he closes his
mouth.
“I know,” Sarah says quietly.
“And he’ll be all right overnight in the detention center,” I insist. “Detective Canavan will
make sure he gets his inhaler. And his Allegra-D.”
“I know,” Sarah says. Again, quietly. Too quietly.
I glance at Cooper over the top of Sarah’s head. He raises his eyebrows. We both sense it:
Something’s wrong. Sarah should be in hysterics. Why is she so calm?
We wait at the corner for an empty cab to come by and take us back to Washington Square.
It’s a gorgeous spring evening, and there are a lot of people out and about, couples—both of
the hetero and homo variety, some pushing strollers, some not—and singles, some walking
dogs, some not, all stylishly attired (it’s the West Village, after all), enjoying the warm
weather and twilight sky, strolling by the quaint outdoor cafés with their brightly colored
awnings, the expensive home decor shops, the fragrantly scented cupcake bakeries, the
specialty condom stores…
Not hard, or anything. Just enough to get a reaction.
“Ow!” Sarah exclaims, jumping and rubbing her arm. She turns an accusatory gaze up at me.
“What’d you do that for?”
“What’s the matter with you?” I demand. “You just found out the love of your life’s a big fat
phony. Why aren’t you hyperventilating? Or at least crying?”
“What are you talking about?” Sarah’s eyebrows, badly in need of plucking, are constricted.
“Sebastian’s not the love of my life. And he’s NOT a phony.”
“A pacifist who carries a thirty-eight?” Cooper, holding open the door to the backseat of the
taxi, looks skeptical. “You don’t find that a bit hypocritical?”
“God, don’t you see?” Sarah lets out a bitter laugh as she climbs into car. “It’s so obvious.
Someone planted that gun on him.”
I glance at Cooper as I slide onto the backseat beside her, but he shrugs, obviously as clueless
as I am. “Sarah, what are you talking about?”
“It’s clearly a conspiracy,” Sarah explains, as if the two of us are simpletons not to have seen
it. “A setup by the president’s office. I don’t know how they did it, but you can be sure
they’re behind it. Sebastian would never carry a gun. Someone must have slipped it into his
bag.”
“Washington Square West and Waverly,” Cooper says to the cabdriver, as he joins me on the
backseat. To Sarah, he says, “I gotta hand it to you, kid. That’s a new one. A conspiracy by
the New York College president’s office. Very creative.”
“Laugh all you want,” Sarah says. She turns her face resolutely toward the window. “But
they’re going to be sorry come morning. Very sorry.”
I stare at her profile. It’s getting darker out, and harder to see. I can’t tell whether or not she’s
kidding.
But then again, she’s Sarah. Sarah’s never been much of a kidder.
“What do you mean, they’re going to be sorry?” I ask her. “What are you talking about?”
“Nothing,” Sarah says innocently. “Don’t worry about it.”
I glance at Cooper. He’s trying not to smile. Although I don’t see anything particularly funny
about the situation.
  
Sarah turns down my invitation to come over for dinner as we pull up in front of Fischer Hall.
She says she has a lot of work to do—whatever that means. Cooper remarks when she’s gone
that it’s just as well—he’s had as much twenty-something drama as he can take for one day.
“But what could she mean, we’re going to be sorry?” I wonder, as we make our way up the
stoop to his front door. “What could she be up to?”
“I don’t know.” Cooper fumbles with his keys. “But it seems to me if she gets out of hand
you have a good bargaining tool with the fact that she was letting that kid live illegally in
your building. Just threaten to rat her out.”
“Oh, Coop,” I say. “I can’t do that.”
“Why not?” he wants to know. “You’re too soft on them, Heather. What was that whole thing
earlier, with my car? Did you really think there was a chance in hell I was going to let them
borrow it?”
“No,” I say. “But you’re one to talk. What was that other whole thing in your office earlier,
where you were swearing at Sarah, and telling her to get the fuck out? Like you were really
going to throw her out. You wouldn’t throw a cockroach out of there. Obviously.”
“Heather, you might not have noticed, but she was completely lying to us.” Cooper manages
to get the front door unlocked, then pushes it open. “Do you think we’d have ever gotten the
truth out of her if I’d coddled her the way you do?”
My cell phone rings. I pull it out, see that it’s Tad calling, and immediately send the call to
voice mail.
Unfortunately, Cooper is standing close enough that he sees who it was. And where I sent the
call.
“Trouble in paradise?” he asks, one dark eyebrow quirked.
“No,” I say stiffly. “I just don’t feel like talking to him at the moment.” I follow him inside,
throwing my purse and keys onto the same console table in the hallway where he’s thrown
his wallet and keys. “The point is, you didn’t have to be that mean to her…”
Cooper turns to look down at me. “Yes, actually, Heather, I did. Sometimes, if you want to
get to the truth, you have to push people. It may not be pretty, but it works.”
“Well, we’re just going to have to agree to disagree,” I say. “Because I think you can be nice
to people and get the same results.”
“Yeah,” Cooper says, with a snort. “In four years.”
“Sarah’s conscience would have gotten the better of her sooner or later,” I say. “Way sooner
than four years. Try four minutes. Which is exactly what happened. And oh my God, what is
that smell?”
Cooper inhales.
  
“That,” he says, in the tone of a man who is well pleased with a discovery, “is the succulent
odor of your dad’s braised short ribs.”
“My God.” I am in shock. “That smells delicious.”
“Yeah, well, better enjoy it while you can, ’cause this is the last time we’re gonna get to
experience it.”
“Shut up,” I say. “He’s only moving uptown. He’s not dying.”
“You’re the one who couldn’t stand having him around,” Cooper points out, as he hurries
toward the back of the house, which is where the insanely good smell is coming from. “I was
perfectly content to let him live here forever.”
“Come on.” I can’t believe what I’m hearing as I trot along behind him. “Forever? All that
yoga and those aromatherapy candles didn’t bother you? What about the flute playing?”
“When I got to come home to dinners like this? Perfectly forgivable.”
“There you are,” Dad calls from the kitchen. He can hear us as we come down the hallway—
but not, I know from experience, what we’re saying. His hearing’s not what it once was, and
the walls of Cooper’s brownstone are thick. You can’t beat that nineteenth-century
construction. “Stop bickering, you two, and hurry up. Dinner’s ready. You’re late!”
We rush toward the absurdly large (for Manhattan, anyway) skylit kitchen, to find the butcher
block table already set, the candles already lit, and the wine already poured. Dad is standing
at the counter tossing a salad, wearing a blue and white apron over a button-down shirt, olive
green cords, and a pair of Crocs. He brightens when he sees us, as does Lucy, who thumps
her tail against the floor in the contented manner of a dog who has already had her evening
walk.
“Hello,” Dad says. “So glad you could make it.”
“Sorry we’re late,” I begin. “We had to take Sarah to the police station. It turns out she…”
My voice trails off. Because it turns out we’re not alone with Dad and Lucy in the kitchen.
There’s someone sitting at the table with a plate of food already in front of him, although he’s
politely refrained from digging in yet. The same can’t be said, however, of his wineglass.
“Heather!” Cooper’s brother, Jordan, slurs, drunkenly raising a glass of wine in our direction.
“Cooper! Did you hear the news? I’m gonna be a daddy!”
“I really didn’t have any other choice but to let him in,” Dad explains, much later after
dinner, when Cooper has left to drive his brother back to his penthouse on the Upper East
Side. “He was very insistent that he see you. And he was, as you could probably tell, in a
very celebratory mood.”
