After closing her eyes, she faithfully mumbled her nightly prayers, blessing her father and
those she loved. Within a few minutes, Suzette fell asleep and traveled to a world of
troublesome dreams, where she found herself lost and filled with fear.
The chilly night passed, giving way to a unpleasant morning awakening. A little sparrow
chirped as it sat on Suzette’s windowsill. She rolled over, pulled the pillow over her head, and
moaned as she tried to decide whether to shoo the bird away or get out of bed. Unable to fall
back asleep, she sat up and swung her pillow to the side heaving a sigh of frustration.
For a few moments, her dark and convoluted dreams haunted her, but she shrugged them
off. She raised her arms above her head and stretched. The ice-cold wooden floor greeted her
bare feet as she climbed out of bed.
“Burr,” she moaned. Suzette grabbed her white robe off a nearby chair. She slipped it on,
tied the sash, and then headed out her door down the hallway. She stood by the bath chamber
and noticed an eerie silence permeate the air. Usually at this time of the morning, her father
would be in the kitchen boiling water for his tea.
Suzette glanced around. The only sound she detected came from the chirping bird perched
on her windowsill. She walked down the dark hallway toward her father’s door and leaned her
ear against the wooden barrier, expecting to hear his snore. Silence persisted. Suzette stepped
back and with a light tap of her knuckles softly knocked.
“Papa? Papa?”
When no answer came, she thought perchance her father had left early for work. She
walked to the sitting room to see if his jacket had been removed. It remained exactly where he
placed it the evening before, hanging on the coat rack by the front door. A sense of dread
clutched her heart. She turned quickly around and ran across the wood floor toward her father’s
room. Her bare feet slapped against the floorboards.
“Papa? Are you in there? Can you hear me?”
Suzette knocked feverishly, but no answer came. Her hand trembled when she reached for
the metal doorknob. Slowly, she turned it to the right. When the latch released, Suzette pushed
the door open just enough to poke her head around the edge and peek inside. The curtains
remained closed, and the room was dark and quiet. Suzette stood motionless for a moment,
while her eyes adjusted to the lack of light. Finally, they rested upon her father’s body in the
bed.
“Papa, are you all right?”
When he did not answer, she pushed the door wide open and hesitantly walked to his
bedside. Dressed in his overnight gown, he lay prostrate, with his face buried in the pillow. She
looked at him and realized his chest neither rose nor lowered. Frantic over the lack of
movement, she knelt down at his side and placed her hand upon his back.
“Papa!” she cried. “Papa, wake up!”
The touch of his cold, rigid body spoke of death, and Suzette quickly withdrew her hand in
horror over the discovery. She sprang to her feet, stumbled backwards, and brought both hands
to her mouth to catch her horrified scream.
Panicked, she fled out of the bedroom and ran down the hallway crying hysterically.
Unsure what to do, she paced back and forth in a distraught state of mind until a moment of
clarity returned. She exited the apartment and swiftly ran to her neighbor’s door. With both
fists, Suzette pounded on the wooden barrier, begging for help in a desperate, sobbing voice.
“I need help! Please, I need help!” Her hot tears burned her cheeks. A moment later, the
door swung open.
“My word, child! What is the matter?” Monsieur Pelletier looked astounded over Suzette’s
frantic actions. His wife stood by his side with a wide-eyed look upon her face.
Suzette gasped. “It’s Papa. I can’t wake him up!” Sobs choked her throat. “I...I...I think
he’s dead.”
“Oh my God, Suzette!”
He wrapped his arm around her shoulder and swiftly headed toward their apartment. His
wife, Adele, followed closely behind, shaking her head.
Suzette led them to her father’s bedroom and then stood by the door, terrified to enter. She
watched Monsieur Pelletier approach the bed.
“Edgar? Edgar!”
Monsieur Pelletier received no response and bent down to touch the body. He nodded his
head and turned to Suzette with an empathetic look.
“He’s dead, I’m afraid.” Not wishing for her to gaze upon death, he took the wool blanket
and pulled it up until it hid her father’s body underneath.
“I’m terribly sorry, Suzette. He must have died in his sleep. God rest his soul.”
He reverently made the sign of the cross, along with his wife, Adele. Suzette stood frozen
in the doorway, unable to move. She sobbed loudly, and Madame Pelletier drew near to her
side. Suzette buried her head in Adele’s shoulder and lost herself in grief.
“There, there, Suzette,” Madame Pelletier offered in motherly comfort, while stroking her
back. “It will be all right. Your father is in heaven now. Don’t despair.”
Her words brought little comfort to Suzette’s heart. Anxiety tightened her chest, choking
the air from her lungs, and she wondered if she would perish, too.
Monsieur Pelletier placed his hand upon her shoulder. “It must have been a stroke or a heart
attack. God is merciful. He probably died peacefully in his sleep. Your father was a good man.”
“You should arrange for the body to be taken somewhere, William.” Adele’s eyes pleaded
for her husband’s help.
Suzette abruptly pulled from her embrace. “What do you mean take his body?”
“Well, he can’t stay here, dear. His remains must be moved.” A look of panic spread
across her face, and she inquired if Suzette had others to help her through this difficult time.
“Do you have family here, dear? Is there anyone who can help you?”
“No,” she replied, with a forlorn look upon her face. “There is no one except my aunt and
her husband, but they moved to the Americas years ago.”
“Oh, I see, dear.” She turned to her husband and implored him to do something. “Go on,
William. Get your hat and coat and take this child with you to the funeral parlor for
arrangements. Please!”
“Yes, of course.”
He put his arm around Suzette and encouraged her to get dressed. Suzette stood paralyzed
as she looked at the body of her father. Her audible sobbing had turned to silent tears that rolled
freely down her flushed cheeks. Overcome with shock, Suzette realized she could no longer
inhale any air. Black spots danced across her field of vision, and she floated into darkness and
into the arms of Monsieur Pelletier standing nearby.
* * *
Muffled voices, footsteps, and clanging noises echoed in the recesses of Suzette’s mind,
finally bringing her back to consciousness. She opened her eyelids and blinked a few times,
until she focused on the white plaster ceiling above her bed. After a quick glance down at her
body, she discovered herself wrapped up in a blanket. Her pounding head rested upon a pillow.
Her first waking thoughts gave way to chaos. Why was she there? Like a cold bucket of
water splashed in her face, the shock of her earlier discovery came flooding back.
She flung the covers off her nightgown-clad body and ran out of her room down to her
father’s bedchamber. She pleaded like a child the whole way. Please, God, let it be just a
terrible dream. When she entered the doorway, an empty bed greeted her swollen eyelids, and
the sick realization returned.
Suzette stood shrouded in sorrow for a few moments, and then turned and wandered into
the kitchen. The floor shifted beneath her feet, as she fought dizziness. Monsieur and Madame
Pelletier were speaking to one another unaware of her arrival. She stopped in the doorway and
exhaled in anger.
“Where is he?”
“Oh, dear, you’re up.” Madame Pelletier came to her side and gently brushed the unruly
curls from her face. “Are you all right? We were worried about you. Grief overcame your
senses, and you fainted.”
“Yes, I’m all right. Where is he?” she demanded again.
Monsieur Pelletier placed his hand on her forearm in reassurance. “He’s at the funeral
parlor down the street, Suzette. I took the liberty of having their staff take your father’s body
from the apartment to a more appropriate place.”
Gone. They had taken her father away, and Suzette felt lost.
“You’ll have to go there later today, dear, and make the arrangements,” Madame Pelletier
informed her. “Don’t worry, though. My husband will go with you, so that you don’t have to do
this horrible burden all alone.”
“I don’t want to be alone,” Suzette replied, as a tiny tear trickled down her cheek.
“Are you sure there is no one to help you, Suzette? Maybe a friend, perhaps, or your
father’s coworkers?”
“I don’t think so,” she answered, trying to think of anyone she knew. “Perhaps people at
work, but my father never spoke of anyone in particular.”
“Well, what about friends? You know, people your father visited.”
“We rarely socialized with others. He said he was always tired when he came home from
work, and we just kept each other company.”
“The Parish, perhaps? What about Father Joseph? I’m sure he will help you during this
difficult time.”
“Yes, yes, I’m sure he would help me,” she agreed. Suzette turned and looked at Monsieur
Pelletier. “What should I do next?”
“I’m afraid, my dear, much needs to be done. You should dress, have something to eat, and
then we’ll go to the funeral parlor to discuss the matters that need to be arranged.”
“All right, then,” she responded, acting like an obedient child. She felt dependent upon her
neighbors for guidance. Suzette had never dealt with such ominous matters before like funeral
arrangements. Her mother died when she was a small child, and her father took care of all the
details of her burial.
Bewildered, Suzette returned to her room to dress and closed the door for privacy. She
stood in front of her long mirror with a blank expression upon her face. Her eyes were red, and
her complexion looked pasty white. Suzette’s wretched appearance confirmed what she felt
inside—a part of her had died, too.
Her hands shook as she reached for the hem of her nightgown, pulled it over her head, and
let it fall to her feet. Naked, cold, and alone, she stood shivering, stripped of all that she had
loved. It would take some time before Suzette would be ready to accompany Monsieur Pelletier
to the funeral parlor to take care of her father’s remains, because once again hot tears streamed
down her cheeks.
Chapter Two
“Mademoiselle, I am so sorry for your loss.”
Suzette looked at the man who stood before her dressed entirely in black. His facial
expression appeared sympathetic, but she wondered if he truly felt compassion, or if his words
were merely routine gibberish. Wary of his sincerity, Suzette refused politely to acknowledge
his greeting.
Monsieur Pelletier had escorted Suzette to the burial service were they had taken her
father’s remains. Upon entering the building, she felt death greet her at the door. It felt
reminiscent of the cold presence that followed her in the dream the night before. She shuddered
over the similarities.
The surroundings, pleasantly decorated with palm plants, green settees, and landscaped art
on the walls, did little to comfort or diminish her nerves. The manager appeared to notice her
distrustful demeanor, and then attempted again to make her feel welcome.
“Monsieur Lefevre, at your service.” He turned to Monsieur Pelletier and acknowledged his
arrival with a nod. “Please, Mademoiselle Rousseau, follow me.”
Monsieur Pelletier gave Suzette a reassuring look, and she followed the man clothed in
black through a narrow hallway that led to his office.
“Please, have a seat,” he said, motioning to a chair in front of his mahogany desk.
Still dazed, she sat and glanced around the room and then loudly inquired about the
whereabouts of her father’s body. “Where is he?”
A bit surprised by her demanding question, he cleared his throat before answering. “He is
in our deceased holding area, mademoiselle. I assure you that we have treated his remains with
the greatest respect.”
Embarrassed over her loud outburst, she sheepishly replied, “Thank you.”
“Now, let us talk of funeral arrangements, shall we?” The director opened a black
notebook. He picked up his quill and dipped it in the inkwell on his desk ready to write the
arrangements for the sale.
“Casket...” he said, in a businesslike manner. “We have a large selection of caskets, at
varying prices.”
“Prices?” Suzette squawked.
“Yes, prices, Mademoiselle Rousseau.” After seeing the panicked look on her face, he
replaced the quill in its holder, folded his hands on the desk in front of him, and leaned forward.
“Let me ask you a question before we go further. How much can you afford? If I know
what you can spend, then I can show you items that are in that price range.” He tilted his head
and glanced over at Monsieur Pelletier with a smile.
Suzette didn’t know the answer. Her father took care of financial matters, and she knew
nothing about his private affairs. He gave her an allowance for clothes and shoes when she
needed them. Other than that, the amount of money now in her possession was a complete
mystery.
She turned to her neighbor and confessed her ignorance. “Monsieur, I do not know where
my father kept his money or where he banked. I have nothing inside my purse but a few francs.
What should I do?”
Monsieur Pelletier was not surprised. Suzette’s naivety was quite obvious, and no doubt her
father shared nothing about household finances. Edgar probably never revealed any of his
private affairs. As a matter of course, men never discussed money matters with wives or
daughters.
He patted Suzette’s clenched hands in her lap to give her reassurance.
“My wife and I will help when we return to your apartment. We’ll look through your
father’s papers and see if we can find any financial records, money, or what bank he may have
frequented.” He looked at Monsieur Lefevre and offered a suggestion.
“Perhaps, Monsieur, you might show the lady your lowest prices possible for now. When
we find more information about her financial situation, we will visit again to finalize the burial
arrangements.”
He sat straight up in his chair and reclaimed the quill in his hand. “Very well then.” After
clearing his throat once more, he continued to discuss possible arrangements. “Mademoiselle,
does your family possess a plot or crypt?”
“We have no crypt. My mother is buried in a plot, in the Père-Lachaise Cemetery.”
“Is that a temporary grave or perpetual?”
“I don’t understand,” Suzette replied confused.
“When did your mother pass away, might I ask?”
“Twelve years ago, monsieur.”
“And do you still visit her grave today, or has it been removed?”
Appalled at the question, she responded in outrage. “No, monsieur, her grave is still there,
with a large marker.”
“Ah, then your father must have purchased the plot in perpetuity.” It was obvious by the
look on her face that she was still confused over his statement, so he explained further.
“Those who cannot afford to purchase plots in perpetuity are buried in temporary graves
that are exhumed after five years, and their bones relocated to the ossuary.” Giving her a
moment to take in the information, he continued. “Since your father purchased the plot in
perpetuity, it means your mother will not be exhumed. That is a choice now you must make for
your father. Do you understand?”
Suzette could not believe it! Bodies exhumed, and bones piled in heaps? Of course, when
her mother passed away, her father took care of the arrangements. They often visited her grave
and brought fresh flowers or knelt and prayed.
“Yes, I understand, monsieur. I did not know about these things.”
He sighed and then stood to his feet. “Most do not. Death is not a subject that is often
discussed, nor arrangements made ahead of time in many cases. Unfortunately, as you have
discovered,” he expressed sympathetically, “death visits us when we least expect its arrival, and
difficult decisions must be quickly made.”
He walked to the other side of his desk and suggested another course of action. “Perhaps
you should first inquire about your father’s finances and return tomorrow. We shall continue to
keep your father’s body until I hear back from you. Would that be sufficient?”
Relieved that she did not have to make any hasty decisions, she nodded in agreement. “Yes,
thank you. That would be more than helpful.”
Suzette turned to Monsieur Pelletier. “Will you assist me with these matters?”
“Yes, of course.” He stood up, held out his hand, and aided Suzette to her feet. After polite
goodbyes, they returned to search out the matter of Edgar Rousseau’s finances.
* * *
Suzette spent a sleepless night tossing and turning in bed. Her lack of rest did nothing to
help her present state of mind as she sat before the solicitor’s desk. Her body shook, and her
knees bobbed up and down from nerves. She placed her cold hands upon her bony joints to
suppress the movement, but failed to stop the jerking. It was a horrible nervous reaction she
struggled with her entire life, which caused her to blush profusely with embarrassment.
The evening before, Monsieur Pelletier and his wife assisted Suzette as they rummaged
through her father’s desk looking for answers. To their dismay, they discovered little—only a
few bank registers revealing miniscule funds. Bills from debtors were stuffed in drawers, which
Suzette found disturbing. Her father’s private papers were stacked in no semblance of order.
After an hour of searching every inch of Edgar’s desk, they had only gleaned a severe case of
frustration.
However, among the clutter they discovered a business card bearing the name of
EDWARD DUPREE, SOLICITOR. Monsieur Pelletier hoped it was her father’s personal
solicitor, who handled his will and other financial matters. They set out the next morning to the
gentleman’s office in hopes of discovering answers to their questions.
Finally, after minutes of Suzette holding her knees down, a tall, young male clerk entered
the waiting area. “Monsieur Dupree will see you now. Please come with me.” He led the way to
a large office, where an austere man greeted them with a unsympathetic expression.
“Mademoiselle Rousseau, it is a pleasure to meet you.” He looked at her companion
because no introduction had been made. “And what is your relationship to the young lady?”
“Forgive me, monsieur, but this is my neighbor, Monsieur Pelletier,” Suzette apologetically
clarified. “He has been graciously helping me, in order to ascertain my father’s financial
situation.”
“Pleasure to meet you, monsieur.” He offered a weak handshake. “Please have a seat.”
After they had situated themselves, he continued. “So, how may I help you today?”
“Well, monsieur,” Suzette began in a shaky voice, “I found your card among my deceased
father’s belongings.” Tears welled in Suzette’s eyes, and she bit her quivering lips in an attempt
to control her emotions. After inhaling a deep breath for composure, she continued. “My father
passed away yesterday.”
“My sincerest condolences,” he interjected. A concerned look furrowed his brow as he
waited for her to continue.
“I—we,” she corrected, looking at Monsieur Pelletier, “have gone through my father’s
desk, checking his financial matters and found your card. We thought perhaps that you might
know of a will he possessed or might have information about his finances.” Suzette paused for a
moment. “I need to bury my father, monsieur,” she spoke, lowering her gaze to her lap. “But I
do not know where I can find my father’s money in order to take care of the arrangements.”
Monsieur Dupree looked at Suzette and then glanced at Monsieur Pelletier. He knew they
both wished to hear good news; but, unfortunately, he would be the bearer of unpleasantness.
He stood up and walked to the window and glanced at the street below to avoid the forthcoming
pained expressions upon their faces.
“I’m afraid, Mademoiselle Rousseau, that your father has no money,” he said coldly. He
watched the various carriages passing by outside for a few moments in order to collect his
thoughts before continuing to explain the sorry state of affairs. Finally, he turned around and
faced Suzette.
“I have been hired by his creditors to collect his debts—one way or the other.”
“Debts?” Suzette squawked.
“Yes, debts, mademoiselle. It seems that some years ago, your father took out a rather
large, unsecured loan, and in doing so, he became habitually behind on many obligations. My
clients have been more than generous in giving him ample time to repay, but as time passed, it
became increasingly clear that legal action needed to be taken.”
“Oh.” Suzette shoulders drooped over the revelation.
“Well,” Monsieur Pelletier interjected, “I assume such debts are cancelled now that he is
deceased.”
“Not necessarily. The law requires that his property be sold to pay those debts, and I assure
you that my clients will surely sell all of his possessions to gain some return.”
Monsieur Dupree’s face turned dark, and Suzette could see the man intended to carry out
his threat. “We have very little,” she pleaded. “What could his debtors possibly gain?”
“Satisfaction, I’m afraid,” he replied with a grim face.
“But I will have nothing!”
“I’m sorry, but those matters are not my concern. I am only here to carry out the wishes of
my clients. Now that I am aware of your father’s demise, we will request a court order. The
estate will be sold directly in order to remedy what he owes.”
The solicitor sat down behind his desk, picked up his quill, and turned his attention
elsewhere. “My office will be contacting you shortly with an order from the court. Good day.”
He had done his duty representing his clients and preferred to say nothing further regarding the
subject.
Frozen in her chair, Suzette turned to Monsieur Pelletier and whispered, “What can I do?”
He shook his head and rose from his chair. “Nothing. Come now, we must leave.” He held
out his hand and helped Suzette to her wobbly feet.
* * *
With no funds to give her father a proper burial, Edgar Rousseau, like other poor Parisians,
faced eternity in a common grave outside the city walls. The spring day dropped cold rain upon
Suzette’s covered head. She insisted on accompanying her father to his final resting place.
His body, wrapped in coarse burlap, was placed in an uncovered wagon parked in an
alleyway adjacent to the mortuary. Suzette sobbed as they lay his remains among other dead
corpses. She followed the route of the wagon in a carriage hired by Monsieur Pelletier and his
wife. It proceeded slowly down cobblestone streets, while onlookers gawked with curiosity as it
passed by.
Finally, they reached the outskirts of the city and pulled up to the common grave area near
the vast Père-Lachaise Cemetery. Suzette exited the carriage to watch the burial. She stood
shrouded in her black-hooded cloak, appearing like a heartbroken angel that had fallen from the
gray skies above.
The rain had thoroughly soaked the burlap, and the material clung to the naked bodies
revealing more than she cared to see. Suzette wished to turn her head away, but she kept her
eyes upon her father.
In rather poor taste, workers stood waiting for the wagon’s arrival with unsympathetic grins
and holding shovels in their hands. A large, freshly-dug hole for numerous remains gaped open
in the wet earth.
Suzette watched while dispassionate men removed and tossed her father’s body into the
ground, alongside other unidentified people. When he hit the bottom with a thud, she recoiled at
the sight. No one else attended the nameless corpses dumped into the muddy hole. When the
last body was tossed, the men took their shovels and flung clods of wet soil on top of the mass
of death.
Suzette muttered, “Dust we are, and to dust we will return.” She tossed a single white lily
in the grave and watched until it disappeared in the earth.
Monsieur Pelletier tugged at Suzette’s sleeve. “We should go now. No need to watch such
sadness.”
“No!” Suzette pulled away and stood her ground. She patiently watched the workers fill the
hole. It was difficult to believe that her father’s sacrifice had brought him to such a disgraceful
end.
Edgar Rousseau incurred a large unsecured debt in order to purchase a perpetual plot for his
wife inside the Père-Lachaise Cemetery. He commissioned a sculpted weeping angel for
placement over her grave. Suzette never knew the financial cost of his expression of love. In
addition, he had taken out several other loans to pay for her private education, a governess, and
household expenses.
How ironic that he would never spend eternity alongside the woman he so ardently loved.
Instead, in five years, his bones would be exhumed and thrown into a pit to rest with thousands
of others, unmarked and unnamed until the day of resurrection. She thought the final destination
a terrible price to pay just to give his departed wife dignity in death.
The men patted down the last clods of wet soil. The burial was over. Suzette felt a warm
arm wrap around her waist.
“Monsieur Pelletier and I have been talking, my dear. We want you to stay with us for a
while until you get back on your feet.”
“Yes, Suzette,” he wholeheartedly agreed. “It’s the least we can do, but I’m afraid it cannot
be for long.”
Suzette looked at her neighbors while drying her cheeks with her handkerchief. They
glanced at each other with sad expressions.
“I appreciate your offer of generosity.”
“You see, Suzette, Adele and I will be moving at the end of the month to Rouen to be with
our daughter.” He glanced at his wife and continued. “We can only keep you for two weeks, and
then I’m afraid you’ll have to make other arrangements.”
Suzette felt numb and akin to the corpses underneath her feet. She simply accepted their
proposal, afraid to think beyond the moment.
“Yes, of course, I understand. I truly appreciate your help. I’m sure I will find something
soon.” A sense of dread clawed at her heels as she turned away from her father’s grave.
* * *
After the burial, Suzette was plagued by sleepless nights and sickening despair. She cried
for days, unable to accept comfort from her neighbors and refused any food to eat.
A court order had arrived setting a date for the estate sale. Suzette would be allowed to
remove her own personal items, such as clothing and other essentials, but all other property was
to be tagged, priced, and set for auction.
Employees from a Parisian auction house arrived a few days beforehand and began to
inventory the contents of their apartment. Suzette insisted on standing nearby as they sifted
through the household goods. She collected what she could keep for herself, along with a few
pictures of her mother and father. Items deemed of value were set aside for auction, while those
deemed as trash were hauled away.
By the end of the week, movers arrived to empty the apartment. The entire contents were
stripped bare. What remained of her earthy belongings fit into a small suitcase. The apartment
landlord took the keys and rented the residence to another.
Totally destitute, her neighbors showered her in sympathy and gave her the divan in their
parlor as a bed. To her chagrin, however, they had begun to pack for their move to Rouen.
Suzette felt threatened and vulnerable. As the time drew closer to their departure, the
hopelessness of her position gnawed at her heart.
All her life someone had taken care of her. Somehow, she needed to find the strength to
survive on her own, but she was frightened. Suzette listened to the kind advice of her neighbors,
seeking wisdom on what to do next.
“I think it’s time, Suzette. Perhaps you should talk with Father Joseph about temporary
housing.”
Monsieur Pelletier’s compassionate voice offered the suggestion in earnest. He had noticed
Suzette’s depression and despair worsen as the days progressed. She needed to take action
quickly, as he and his wife feared she would be on the streets alone as soon as they departed.
“Yes, of course,” she agreed. “I know I need to speak with him, even if I do feel like a
beggar.”
