GIVE YOUR KIDS AN ALLOWANCE
AND SOME CHORES—BUT DON’T
COMBINE THEM
Here’s why an allowance is good for kids: Having a little of their own money, and
deciding how to save or spend it, offers a measure of autonomy and teaches them to be
responsible with cash.
Here’s why household chores are good for kids: Chores show kids that families are built
on mutual obligations and that family members need to help each other.
Here’s why combining allowances with chores is not good for kids. By linking money to
the completion of chores, parents turn an allowance into an “if-then” reward. This sends
kids a clear (and clearly wrongheaded) message: In the absence of a payment, no selfrespecting
child would willingly set the table, empty the garbage, or make her own bed. It
converts a moral and familial obligation into just another commercial transaction—and
teaches that the only reason to do a less-than-desirable task for your family is in exchange
for payment. This is a case where combining two good things give you less, not more. So
keep allowance and chores separate, and you just might get that trash can emptied. Even
better, your kids will begin to learn the difference between principles and payoffs.
OFFER PRAISE . . . THE RIGHT WAY
Done right, praise is an important way to give kids feedback and encouragement. But
done wrong, praise can become yet another “if-then” reward that can squash creativity
and stifle intrinsic motivation.
The powerful work of psychologist Carol Dweck, as well as others in the field, offers a
how-to list for offering praise in a way that promotes Type I behavior:
• Praise effort and strategy, not intelligence. As Dweck’s research has shown, children
who are praised for “being smart” often believe that every encounter is a test of whether
they really are. So to avoid looking dumb, they resist new challenges and choose the
easiest path. By contrast, kids who understand that effort and hard work lead to mastery
and growth are more willing to take on new, difficult tasks.
• Make praise specific. Parents and teachers should give kids useful information about
their performance. Instead of bathing them in generalities, tell them specifically what
they’ve done that’s noteworthy.
• Praise in private. Praise is feedback—not an award ceremony. That’s why it’s often
best to offer it one-on-one, in private.
• Offer praise only when there’s a good reason for it. Don’t kid a kid. He can see
through fake praise in a nanosecond. Be sincere—or keep quiet. If you overpraise, kids
regard it as dishonest and unearned. Plus, overpraising becomes another “if-then” reward
that makes earning praise, rather than moving toward mastery, the objective.
HELP KIDS SEE THE BIG PICTURE
In education systems tilted toward standardized tests, grades, and “if-then” rewards,
students often have no idea why they’re doing what they’re doing. Turn that around by
helping them glimpse the big picture. Whatever they’re studying, be sure they can answer
these questions: Why am I learning this? How is it relevant to the world I live in now?
Then get out of the classroom and apply what they’re studying. If they’re learning
Spanish, take them to an office, a store, or a community center where they can actually
speak the language. If they’re studying geometry, have them draw up architectural plans
for an addition to your school or home. If they’re taking history, ask them to apply what
they’ve learned to an event in the news. Think of it as the fourth R: reading, writing,
arithmetic . . . and relevance.
CHECK OUT THESE FIVE TYPE I
SCHOOLS
Although most schools around the world are still built atop the Motivation 2.0 operating
system, a number of forward-thinking educators have long understood that young people
are brimming with the third drive. Here are five Type I schools in the United States with
practices to emulate and stories to inspire.
• Big Picture Learning. Since 1996, with the opening of its flagship public high school,
the Met, in Providence, Rhode Island, Big Picture Learning has been creating places that
cultivate engagement rather than demand compliance. Founded by two veteran education
innovators, Dennis Littky and Elliot Washor, Big Picture is a nonprofit that now has
sixty-plus schools around the United States that put students in charge of their own
education. Big Picture kids get the basics. But they also use those basics and acquire
other skills by doing real work in the community—all under the guidance of an
experienced adult tutor. And instead of easily gamed Motivation 2.0 measurements, Big
Picture kids are assessed the way adults are—on work performance, individual
presentations, effort, attitude, and behavior on the job. Most of the students at the Met
and other Big Picture schools are “at risk” low-income and minority kids who’ve been
poorly served by conventional schools. Yet thanks to this innovative Type I approach,
more than 95 percent graduate and go on to college. For more information, go to
http://www.bigpicture.org/. (Full disclosure: I have served, unpaid, on the board of
directors of Big Picture since 2007.)
• Sudbury Valley School. Take a look at this independent school in Framingham,
Massachusetts, to see what happens when young kids have genuine autonomy. Working
from the assumption that all human beings are naturally curious and that the best kind of
learning happens when it’s initiated and pursued by the one doing the learning, Sudbury
Valley School gives its students total control over the task, time, and technique of their
learning. Teachers and staff are there to help them make things happen. This is a school
where engagement is the rule and compliance isn’t an option. For more information, go to
http://www.sudval.org/.
• The Tinkering School. More of a lab than a school, this summer program, created by
computer scientist Gever Tulley, lets children from seven to seventeen play around with
interesting stuff and build cool things. At the headquarters in Montara, California,
Tulley’s tinkerers have built: working zip-lines, motorcycles, toothbrush robots, roller
coasters, and plastic bag bridges strong enough to hold people. Most of us aren’t able to
ship our kids out to California for a week of tinkering, but we can all learn the “Five
Dangerous Things You Should Let Your Children Do.” So take nine minutes to listen to
Tulley’s 2007 online TED Talk of that title. Then hand your kids a pocket-knife, some
power tools, and a book of matches—and get out of the way. For more information, go to
http://www.tinkeringschool.com/ (includes a link to Tulley’s talk).
• Puget Sound Community School. Like Sudbury and Big Picture, this tiny independent
school in Seattle, Washington, gives its students a radical dose of autonomy, turning the
“one size fits all” approach of conventional schools on its head. Each student has an
adviser who acts as her personal coach, helping her come up with her own learning goals.
“School” consists of a mixture of class time and self-created independent study projects,
along with community service devised by the students. Since youngsters are often away
from campus, they gain a clear sense that their learning has a real-world purpose. And
rather than chase after grades, they receive frequent, informal feedback from advisers,
teachers, and peers. For more information, go to www.pscs.org.
• Montessori Schools. Dr. Maria Montessori developed the Montessori method of
teaching in the early 1900s after observing children’s natural curiosity and innate desire
to learn. Her early understanding of the third drive spawned a worldwide network of
schools, mostly for preschool and primary-aged children. Many of the key tenets of a
Montessori education resonate with the principles of Motivation 3.0—that children
naturally engage in self-directed learning and independent study; that teachers should act
as observers and facilitators of that learning, and not as lecturers or commanders; and that
children are naturally inclined to experience periods of intense focus, concentration, and
flow that adults should do their best not to interrupt. Although Montessori schools are
rare at the junior high and high school levels, every school, educator, and parent can learn
from its enduring and successful approach. Meantime, while you’re investigating
Montessori, check out two other approaches to learning that also promote Type I
behavior: the Reggio Emilia philosophy for the education of young children and the
Waldorf schools. For more information, visit these websites: www.montessori-ami.org,
www.montessori.org, www.amshq.org, www.reggioalliance.org, and
www.whywaldorfworks.org.
TAKE A CLASS FROM THE
UNSCHOOLERS
In the United States, the homeschooling movement has been growing at a remarkable
pace over the past twenty years. And the fastest-growing segment of that movement is the
“unschoolers”—families that don’t use a formal curriculum and instead allow their
children to explore and learn what interests them. Unschoolers have been among the first
to adopt a Type I approach to education. They promote autonomy by allowing youngsters
to decide what they learn and how they learn it. They encourage mastery by allowing
children to spend as long as they’d like and to go as deep as they desire on the topics that
interest them. Even if unschooling is not for you or your kids, you can learn a thing or
two from these educational innovators. Start by reading John Taylor Gatto’s
extraordinary book, Dumbing Us Down. Take a look at Home Education Magazine and
its website. Then check out some of the many other unschooling sites on the Web. For
more information, go to www.homeedmag.com, www.unschooling.com, and
www.sandratodd.com/unschooling.
TURN STUDENTS INTO TEACHERS
One of the best ways to know whether you’ve mastered something is to try to teach it.
Give students that opportunity. Assign each pupil in a class a different aspect of the
broader topic you’re studying—and then have them take turns teaching what they’ve
learned to their classmates. And once they’ve got it down, give them a wider audience by
inviting other classes, teachers, parents, or school administrators to learn what they have
to teach.
Also, at the start of a school term, ask students about their individual passions and areas
of expertise. Keep a list of your experts, and then call upon them as needed throughout
the term. A classroom of teachers is a classroom of learners.
The Type I Reading List: Fifteen Essential Books
Autonomy, mastery, and purpose are integral to the human condition, so it’s no surprise
that a number of writers—from psychologists to journalists to novelists—have explored
these three elements and probed what they mean for our lives. This list of books,
arranged alphabetically by author, isn’t exhaustive—but it’s a good starting point for
anyone interested in cultivating a Type I life.
Finite and Infinite Games: A Vision of Life
as Play and Possibility
BY JAMES P. CARSE
In his elegant little book, religious scholar Carse describes two types of games. A “finite
game” has a winner and an end; the goal is to triumph. An “infinite game” has no winner
and no end; the goal is to keep playing. Nonwinnable games, Carse explains, are much
more rewarding than the win-lose ones we’re accustomed to playing at our work and in
our relationships.
Type I Insight: “Finite players play within boundaries; infinite players play with
boundaries.”
Talent Is Overrated: What Really Separates
World-Class Performers from Everybody
Else
BY GEOFF COLVIN
What’s the difference between those who are pretty good at what they do and those who
are masters? Fortune magazine’s Colvin scours the evidence and shows that the answer is
threefold: practice, practice, practice. But it’s not just any practice, he says. The secret is
“deliberate practice”—highly repetitive, mentally demanding work that’s often
unpleasant, but undeniably effective.
Type I Insight: “If you set a goal of becoming an expert in your business, you would
immediately start doing all kinds of things you don’t do now.”
Flow: The Psychology of Optimal
Experience
BY MIHALY CSIKSZENTMIHALYI
It’s tough to find a better argument for working hard at something you love than
Csikszentmihalyi’s landmark book on “optimal experiences.” Flow describes those
exhilarating moments when we feel in control, full of purpose, and in the zone. And it
reveals how people have turned even the most unpleasant tasks into enjoyable, rewarding
challenges.
Type I Insight: “Contrary to what we usually believe . . . the best moments in our lives are
not the passive, receptive, relaxing times—although such experiences can also be
enjoyable, if we have worked hard to attain them. The best moments usually occur when
a person’s body or mind is stretched to the limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish
something difficult and worthwhile.”
For more of Csikszentmihalyi’s ideas, check out three of his other books: Finding Flow:
The Psychology of Engagement with Everyday Life; Creativity: Flow and the Psychology
of Discovery and Invention; and the classic Beyond Boredom and Anxiety: Experiencing
Flow in Work and Play.
Why We Do What We Do: Understanding
Self-Motivation
BY EDWARD L. DECI WITH RICHARD FLASTE
In 1995, Edward Deci wrote a short book that introduced his powerful theories to a
popular audience. In clear, readable prose, he discusses the limitations of a society based
on control, explains the origins of his landmark experiments, and shows how to promote
autonomy in the many realms of our lives.
Type I Insight: “The questions so many people ask—namely, ‘How do I motivate people
to learn? to work? to do their chores? or to take their medicine?’—are the wrong
questions. They are wrong because they imply that motivation is something that gets
done to people rather than something that people do.”
Mindset: The New Psychology of Success
BY CAROL DWECK
Stanford’s Dweck distills her decades of research to a simple pair of ideas. People can
have two different mindsets, she says. Those with a “fixed mindset” believe that their
talents and abilities are carved in stone. Those with a “growth mindset” believe that their
talents and abilities can be developed. Fixed mindsets see every encounter as a test of
their worthiness. Growth mindsets see the same encounters as opportunities to improve.
Dweck’s message: Go with growth.
Type I Insight: In the book and likewise on her website, www.mindsetonline.com, Dweck
offers concrete steps for moving from a fixed to a growth mindset:
• Learn to listen for a fixed mindset “voice” that might be hurting your resiliency.
• Interpret challenges not as roadblocks, but as opportunities to stretch yourself.
• Use the language of growth—for example, “I’m not sure I can do it now, but I think I
can learn with time and effort.”
Then We Came to the End
BY JOSHUA FERRIS
This darkly hilarious debut novel is a cautionary tale for the demoralizing effects of the
Type X workplace. At an unnamed ad agency in Chicago, people spend more time
scarfing free doughnuts and scamming office chairs than doing actual work—all while
fretting about “walking Spanish down the hall,” office lingo for being fired.
Type I Insight: “They had taken away our flowers, our summer days, and our bonuses, we
were on a wage freeze and a hiring freeze and people were flying out the door like so
many dismantled dummies. We had one thing still going for us: the prospect of a
promotion. A new title: true, it came with no money, the power was almost always
illusory, the bestowal a cheap shrewd device concocted by management to keep us from
mutiny, but when word circulated that one of us had jumped up an acronym, that person
was just a little quieter that day, took a longer lunch than usual, came back with shopping
bags, spent the afternoon speaking softly into the telephone, and left whenever they
wanted that night, while the rest of us sent emails flying back and forth on the lofty topics
of Injustice and Uncertainty.”
Good Work: When Excellence and Ethics
Meet
BY HOWARD GARDNER, MIHALY CSIKSZENTMIHALYI, AND WILLIAM
DAMON
How can you do “good work” in an age of relentless market forces and lightning-fast
technology? By considering three basic issues: your profession’s mission, its standards or
“best practices,” and your own identity. Although this book focuses mainly on examples
from the fields of genetics and journalism, its insights can be applied to a number of
professions buffeted by changing times. The authors have also continued their effort to
identify individuals and institutions that exemplify “good work” on their website:
www.goodwork.org.
Type I Insight: “What do you do if you wake up in the morning and dread going to work,
because the daily routine no longer satisfies your standards?”
• Start groups or forums with others in your industry or outside it to reach beyond your
current area of influence.
• Work with existing organizations to confirm your profession’s values or develop new
guidelines.
• Take a stand. It can be risky, sure, but leaving a job for ethical reasons need not involve
abandoning your professional goals.
Outliers: The Story of Success
BY MALCOLM GLADWELL
With a series of compelling and gracefully told stories, Gladwell deftly takes a hammer
to the idea of the “self-made man.” Success is more complicated, he says. High
achievers—from young Canadian hockey players to Bill Gates to the Beatles—are often
the products of hidden advantages of culture, timing, demographics, and luck that helped
them become masters in their fields. Reading this book will lead you to reevaluate your
own path. More important, it will make you wonder how much human potential we’re
losing when so many people are denied these advantages.
Type I Insight: “It is not how much money we make that ultimately makes us happy
between nine-to-five. It’s whether our work fulfills us. If I offered you a choice between
being an architect for $75,000 a year and working in a tollbooth every day for the rest of
your life for $100,000 a year, which would you take? I’m guessing the former, because
there is complexity, autonomy, and a relationship between effort and reward in doing
creative work, and that’s worth more to most of us than money.”
Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of
Abraham Lincoln
BY DORIS KEARNS GOODWIN
In her entertaining popular history, Goodwin shows Abraham Lincoln as an exemplar of
Type I behavior. He worked mightily to achieve mastery in law and politics. He gave his
staunchest rivals power and autonomy. And he developed a leadership style rooted in a
higher purpose—ending slavery and keeping the union intact.
Type I Insight: Goodwin sheds light on Lincoln’s Type I leadership skills. Among them:
• He was self-confident enough to surround himself with rivals who excelled in areas
where he was weak.
• He genuinely listened to other people’s points of view, which helped him form more
complex opinions of his own.
• He gave credit where it was due and wasn’t afraid to take the blame.
The Amateurs: The Story of Four Young
Men and Their Quest for an Olympic Gold
Medal
BY DAVID HALBERSTAM
What would compel a group of men to endure untold physical pain and exhaustion for a
sport that promised no monetary compensation or fame? That’s the question at the heart
of Halberstam’s riveting narrative about the 1984 U.S. rowing trials, a book that offers a
glimpse into the fires of intrinsic motivation.
Type I Insight: “No chartered planes or buses ferried the athletes into Princeton. No team
managers hustled their baggage from the bus to the hotel desk and made arrangements so
that at mealtime they need only show up and sign a tab. This was a world of hitched rides
and borrowed beds, and meals, if not scrounged, were desperately budgeted by
appallingly hungry young men.”
Punished by Rewards: The Trouble with
Gold Stars, Incentive Plans, A’s, Praise,
and Other Bribes
BY ALFIE KOHN
Former teacher Kohn throws down the gauntlet at society’s blind acceptance of B. F.
Skinner’s “Do this and you’ll get that” theory of behaviorism. This 1993 book ranges
across school, work, and private life in its indictment of extrinsic motivators and paints a
compelling picture of a world without them.
Type I Insight: “Do rewards motivate people? Absolutely. They motivate people to get
rewards.”
Kohn has written eleven books on parenting, education, and behavior—as well as scores
of articles on that topic—all of which are interesting and provocative. There’s more
information on his website: www.alfiekohn.org.
Once a Runner
BY JOHN L. PARKER, JR.
Parker’s novel, originally published in 1978 and kept alive by a devoted coterie of fans,
offers a fascinating look into the psychology of distance running. Through the tale of
college miler Quenton Cassidy, we see the toll that mastery can take—and the thrill it can
produce when it’s realized.
Type I Insight: “He ran not for crypto-religious reasons but to win races, to cover ground
fast. Not only to be better than his fellows, but better than himself. To be faster by a tenth
of a second, by an inch, by two feet or two yards, than he had been the week or year
before. He sought to conquer the physical limitations placed on him by a threedimensional
world (and if Time is the fourth dimension, that too was his province). If he
could conquer the weakness, the cowardice in himself, he would not worry about the rest;
it would come.”
The War of Art: Break Through the Blocks
and Win Your Inner Creative Battles
BY STEVEN PRESSFIELD
Pressfield’s potent book is both a wise meditation on the obstacles that stand in the way
of creative freedom and a spirited battle plan for overcoming the resistance that arises
when we set out to do something great. If you’re looking for a quick jolt on your journey
toward mastery, this is it.
Type I Insight: “It may be that the human race is not ready for freedom. The air of liberty
may be too rarified for us to breathe. Certainly I wouldn’t be writing this book, on this
subject, if living with freedom were easy. The paradox seems to be, as Socrates
demonstrated long ago, that the truly free individual is free only to the extent of his own
self-mastery. While those who will not govern themselves are condemned to find masters
to govern over them.”
Maverick: The Success Story Behind the
World’s Most Unusual Workplace
BY RICARDO SEMLER
While many bosses are control freaks, Semler might be the first autonomy freak. He
transformed the Brazilian manufacturing firm Semco through a series of radical steps. He
canned most executives, eliminated job titles, let the company’s three thousand
employees set their own hours, gave everyone a vote in big decisions, and even let some
workers determine their own salaries. The result: Under Semler’s (non)command, Semco
has grown 20 percent a year for the past two decades. This book, along with Semler’s
more recent The Seven-Day Weekend, shows how to put his iconoclastic and effective
philosophy into action.
Type I Insight: “I want everyone at Semco to be self-sufficient. The company is
organized—well, maybe that’s not quite the right word for us—not to depend too much
on any individual, especially me. I take it as a point of pride that twice on my return from
long trips my office had been moved—and each time it got smaller.”
The Fifth Discipline: The Art and Practice
of the Learning Organization
BY PETER M. SENGE
In his management classic, Senge introduces readers to “learning organizations”—where
autonomous thinking and shared visions for the future are not only encouraged, but are
considered vital to the health of the organization. Senge’s “five disciplines” offer a smart
organizational companion to Type I behavior.
Type I Insight: “People with a high level of personal mastery are able to consistently
realize the results that matter most deeply to them—in effect, they approach their life as
an artist would approach a work of art. They do that by becoming committed to their own
lifelong learning.”
Listen to the Gurus: Six Business Thinkers Who Get It
While the list of companies that embrace Type I thinking is distressingly short, the
blueprints for building such organizations are readily available. The following six
business thinkers offer some wise guidance for designing organizations that promote
autonomy, mastery, and purpose.
DOUGLAS MCGREGOR
Who: A social psychologist and one of the first professors at MIT’s Sloan School of
Management. His landmark 1960 book, The Human Side of Enterprise, gave the practice
of management a badly needed shot of humanism.
Who: The most influential management thinker of the twentieth century. He wrote an
astonishing forty-one books, influenced the thinking of two generations of CEOs,
received a U.S. Presidential Medal of Freedom, and taught for three decades at the
Claremont Graduate University Business School that now bears his name.
Big Idea: Self-management. “Drucker’s primary contribution is not a single idea,” Jim
Collins once wrote, “but rather an entire body of work that has one gigantic advantage:
nearly all of it is essentially right.” Drucker coined the term “knowledge worker,”
foresaw the rise of the nonprofit sector, and was among the first to stress the primacy of
the customer in business strategy. But although he’s best known for his thoughts on
managing businesses, toward the end of his career Drucker signaled the next frontier:
self-management. With the rise of individual longevity and the decline of job security, he
argued, individuals have to think hard about where their strengths lie, what they can
contribute, and how they can improve their own performance. “The need to manage
oneself,” he wrote shortly before he died in 2005, is “creating a revolution in human
affairs.”
Type I Insight: “Demanding of knowledge workers that they define their own task and
its results is necessary because knowledge workers must be autonomous . . . workers
should be asked to think through their own work plans and then to submit them. What am
I going to focus on? What results can be expected for which I should be held
accountable? By what deadline?”
More Info: Drucker wrote many books, and many have been written about him, but a
great starting place is The Daily Drucker, a small gem that provides 366 insights and
“action points” for putting his ideas into practice. On the topic of self-management, read
Drucker’s 2005 Harvard Business Review article, “Managing Oneself.” For more
information and access to digital archives of his writing, check out
www.druckerinstitute.com.
JIM COLLINS
Who: One of the most authoritative voices in business today and the author of Built to
Last (with Jerry Porras), Good to Great, and, most recently, How the Mighty Fall. A
former professor at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, he now operates his own
management lab in Boulder, Colorado.
Big Idea: Self-motivation and greatness. “Expending energy trying to motivate people
is largely a waste of time,” Collins wrote in Good to Great. “If you have the right people
on the bus, they will be self-motivated. The real question then becomes: How do you
manage in such a way as not to de-motivate people?”
Type I Insight: Collins suggests four basic practices for creating a culture where selfmotivation
can flourish:
1. “Lead with questions, not answers.”
2. “Engage in dialogue and debate, not coercion.”
3. “Conduct autopsies, without blame.”
4. “Build ‘red flag’ mechanisms.” In other words, make it easy for employees and
customers to speak up when they identify a problem.
More Info: Collins’s website, www.jimcollins.com, contains more information about his
work, as well as excellent diagnostic tools, guides, and videos.
CALI RESSLER AND JODY
THOMPSON
Who: These two former human resources professionals at Best Buy persuaded their CEO
to experiment with a radical new approach to organizing work. They wrote a book about
their experiences, Why Work Sucks and How to Fix It, and now run their own
consultancy.
Big Idea: The results-only work environment. ROWE, described in Chapter 4, affords
employees complete autonomy over when, where, and how they do their work. The only
thing that matters is results.
Type I Insight: Among the basic tenets of ROWE:
“People at all levels stop doing any activity that is a waste of their time, the customer’s
time, or their company’s time.”
“Employees have the freedom to work any way they want.”
“Every meeting is optional.”
“There are no work schedules.”
Create
one that’s tailored to your needs and fitness level. (You can work with a professional on
this, but you make the final calls.) Equally important, set the right kinds of goals. Ample
research in behavioral science shows that people who seek to lose weight for extrinsic
reasons—to slim down for a wedding or to look better at a class reunion—often reach
their goals. And then they gain the weight back as soon as the target event ends.
Meanwhile, people who pursue more intrinsic goals—to get fit in order to feel good or to
stay healthy for their family—make slower progress at first, but achieve significantly
like a dreary obligation, find a form of fitness you enjoy—that produces those
intoxicating moments of flow. Gather some friends for an informal game of tennis or
basketball, join an amateur league, go for walks at a local park, dance for a half-hour, or
play with your kids. Use the Sawyer Effect to your advantage—and turn your work(out)
into play.
with Stickk (www.stickk.com), a website in which you publicly commit to a goal and
must hand over money—to a friend, a charity, or an “anti-charity”—if you fail to reach it.
But in general, don’t bribe yourself with “if-then” rewards—like “If I exercise four times
this week, then I’ll buy myself a new shirt.” They can backfire. But the occasional “now
that” reward? Not a problem. So if you’ve swum the distance you hoped to this week,
there’s no harm in treating yourself to a massage afterward. It won’t hurt. And it might
feel good.
When it comes to motivation, there’s a gap between what science knows and what
business does. Our current business operating system—which is built around external,
carrot-and-stick motivators—doesn’t work and often does harm. We need an upgrade.
And the science shows the way. This new approach has three essential elements: (1)
Autonomy—the desire to direct our own lives; (2) Mastery—the urge to get better and
better at something that matters; and (3) Purpose—the yearning to do what we do in the
service of something larger than ourselves.
