  
Jordan’s mood, if you ask me, was more suicidal. But then, that’s what happens when you
find out your wife’s pregnant, and you’re not a hundred percent certain you’re ready for
fatherhood.
But that was something Jordan had asked me to keep between the two of us, when he’d
trapped me in the hall on my way back from the bathroom during dinner.
“I never should have let you go,” Jordan informed me mournfully as he sandwiched me
between his body and the wall.
Since we have this conversation approximately every three to four months, I knew the script
and have my part down fairly pat. All I had to say was “Jordan. We’ve been through this.
You and I never worked. You’re much better off with Tania. You know she loves you.”
This time, however, he veered from his accustomed dialogue by saying, “That’s just it. I
don’t think she does. I know this is going to sound crazy, Heather, but I think…I think she
just married me because of who I am. Of who my father is…the owner of Cartwright
Records. This baby thing…I just don’t know…What if it’s just so she can score better
alimony later on?”
I’ll admit, I was shocked.
On the other hand, it was Jordan. And he was drunk. And liquor and Jordan don’t mix.
“Of course that’s not why she wants to have a baby,” I said soothingly. “Tania loves you.”
The truth, of course, is that I have no way of knowing this. But I wasn’t going to stand there
and tell him otherwise.
“But a baby,” Jordan said. “How can I be a dad? I don’t know anything about babies. I don’t
know anything about anything…”
This was a shockingly self-aware statement…especially for Jordan. It exhibited an amazing
amount of growth and maturity on his part. At least I thought so.
“Just the fact that you realize that, Jordan,” I told him, “shows that you’re more ready for
fatherhood now than you’ve ever been. And seriously…as long as you remember that—that
you don’t know anything about anything—I think you’re going to be a terrific dad.”
“Really?” Jordan brightened, as if my opinion on this subject actually mattered to him. “Do
you mean that, Heather?”
“I really do,” I said, giving his hand a squeeze. “Now what do you say we get back to
dinner?”
It was shortly after this that Cooper convinced his brother that he’d done enough celebrating
for one night, and ought to let Cooper take him home. Jordan finally acquiesced—on the
condition that Cooper let him play his new demo in the car on the way uptown, a condition
Cooper agreed to with a visible shudder of distaste—and I convinced Dad to sit and enjoy
one of his herbal teas while I did the dinner dishes.
  
“It’s been quite a day for you,” Dad observes, as I scrub at the caked-on goop that lines the
pot he made the short ribs in. “You must be exhausted. Didn’t you go running this morning?”
“If you could call it that,” I grunt. Seriously, the short ribs had been delicious, but did he have
to use every single pot in the house to make them?
“Tad must have been very proud of you. That’s quite a feat for you—running. He called the
house again, you know, a little while before you came back. I’d have invited him to dinner,
but I know he doesn’t eat meat, and I didn’t have another protein prepared…”
“That’s okay,” I say. “I’ll call him back later.”
“Things are getting pretty serious with him, huh?”
I think about Tad’s odd behavior earlier this morning. Was it only this morning? It seems so
long ago.
“Yeah,” I say. “I guess so. I mean…” He’s going to ask me to marry him. “I don’t know.”
“It’s nice,” Dad says, a little vaguely, “that you have someone. I still worry about you
sometimes, Heather. You’ve never been like other girls, you know.”
“Huh?” I’ve found a particularly stubborn piece of baked-on gunk, and am working at it with
my thumbnail. I wonder if a scouring pad will scratch Cooper’s enamel cookware, purchased
for him by a professional chef girlfriend whose name has long since been lost to history.
“I’m just saying,” Dad goes on. “You’ve always been more like me than like your mother.
Not one for the status quo. Never much of a nine-to-fiver. That’s why I’m surprised you seem
so devoted to this job of yours.”
“I wouldn’t say I’m devoted to it.” I give up and grab the scouring pad. Maybe if I’m careful,
I won’t scratch the enamel. “I mean, I like it…”
“But your true love is singing,” Dad says. “And songwriting. Wouldn’t you say?”
“I don’t know.” The scouring pad isn’t working, either. “I like that, too.”
“What would you say if I told you I knew of an opportunity where you could do both again?
Write and perform your own songs? For money. Good money, too. How would you feel
about that?”
Success! The gunk has come off! But there is so much gunk to follow.
“I don’t know,” I say. “What are you even talking about? You know, Patty’s husband, Frank,
is always trying to get me to go on the road with his band, and I gotta tell you, it’s not exactly
my kind of thing anymore…”
“No, no,” Dad says, leaning forward in his seat. Behind him, I can see the lights of Fischer
Hall gleaming in the kitchen windows. The kids are home from dinner, studying or getting
ready to go out. It doesn’t matter to them that it’s a weeknight…or that their interim hall
  
director was murdered this morning. Not when there’s beer flowing somewhere. “This is a
real opportunity Larry and I would like to offer you. We know how you feel about the record
business—once burned and twice shy and all of that. But this is nothing like that. This is
something totally different. You’ve heard of the Wiggles, haven’t you?”
I pause in my gunk assault. “That British children’s program? Yeah, Patty’s kid loves them.”
“They’re an Australian children’s band, actually,” Dad corrects me. “But this would be
something along similar lines, yes. Larry and I plan to produce and market a line of children’s
music videos and DVDs. The production costs versus the amount of money you can take in is
actually quite literally staggering. Which is where you would come in. We’d like you to be
the star—the hostess and singer/songwriter—for these videos. You’ve always had a strong
appeal to children, even when you were a teenager…something about your voice, your
manner…maybe it’s all that blond hair—I don’t know. You would be the lead in a cast of
characters, all of whom would be animated…you’d be the only human, as a matter of fact.
Each episode you would address a different issue…using the potty, going to day care, being
afraid of going down the drain in the bathtub, that kind of thing. We’ve crunched the
numbers, and feel that we can give the competition—Dora the Explorer, the Wiggles, Blue’s
Clues—a run for its money. We’re thinking of calling it Heather’s World. What do you
think?”
I have stopped scrubbing. Now I’m standing at the sink, staring at him. I feel as if my brain is
a DVR that somebody has just set on Pause.
“What?” I say, intelligently.
“I know you have your heart set on going back to school, honey,” Dad says, leaning forward
in his chair. “And you can absolutely still do that. That’s the magic about this. There’s no
touring, no promoting…at least, not right away. We just want to get the songs written, get the
videos recorded, then get them out on the market and see how they do. I have a feeling—and
Larry agrees—that they’re going to take off in a big way. Then we can work with your
schedule to arrange for any kind of publicity we might like to do. You’ll notice I said we. It’s
totally up to you how much or how little you’d like to do. I’m not your mother, Heather.
Under no circumstances would I want you to do anything more than you’re comfortable
with…”
I can’t seem to wrap my mind around what he’s saying.
“You mean…give up working at Fischer Hall?”
“Well,” Dad says slowly. “I’m afraid that would be necessary, yes. But, Heather, you would
be generously compensated for your work on this project, with a sizable advance that would
be—well, a hundred times what you’re making yearly at Fischer Hall…as well as royalties.
And I believe Larry would not be averse to letting you in on a percentage of the gross as
well—”
“Yeah, but…” I blink at him. “I don’t know. I mean…give up my job? It’s a good job. With
benefits. I get tuition remission and everything. And an excellent health insurance package.”
  
“Heather.” Dad is starting to sound a little impatient. “The Wiggles gross an estimated fifty
million dollars a year. I think with fifty million dollars a year, you could afford the health
insurance package of your choice.”
“Yeah,” I say. “But you don’t even know if these video thingies are going to take off. Kids
might hate them. They might end up being really cheesy or something. End up just sitting in
the bargain bin at Sam Goody.”
“That’s the risk we’re all taking here,” Dad says.
“But…” I stare at him. “I don’t write songs for kids. I write songs for grown-ups…like me.”
“Right,” Dad says. “But writing songs for children can’t be that different from writing songs
for disaffected young women like yourself.”
I blink again. “Disaffected?”
“Instead of complaining about the size of your jeans,” Dad goes on, “complain about why
you have to use a sippy cup. Or why you can’t have big-girl pants. Just give it a try. I think
you’ll be a natural. The truth is, Heather, I’m going out on a limb for you. Larry wants to
approach Mandy Moore. I told him to hold off a bit. I told him I was sure you could come up
with something that’d knock our socks off.”
“Dad.” I shake my head. “I don’t want to write—or sing—about sippy cups.”
“Heather,” Dad says. “I don’t think you understand. This is an extraordinary opportunity for
all of us. But mainly for you. It’s a chance for you to get out of that hellhole you’re working
in—a place where just today, Heather, your boss was shot in the head, just a room away from
where you sit. And also a chance for you to—let’s be honest with one another, Heather—get
a place of your own, so you don’t have to live here with Cooper, which can’t be the healthiest
arrangement for you.”
I turn quickly back toward the dishes. “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”
“Don’t you?” Dad asks gently. “Why haven’t you returned Tad’s calls yet, Heather? Is it
really because you’ve been too busy? Or is it because deep down, you know you’re in love
with someone else?”
I nearly drop the wineglass I’m scrubbing.
“Ouch, Dad,” I grumble. “Way to hurt a girl.”
“Well.” He gets up from table and comes over to lay a hand upon my shoulder. “That’s just
it. I don’t want to see you hurt. I want to help you. Lord knows you’ve helped me these past
few months. I want to return the favor. Won’t you let me?”
I can’t look into his face. I know if I do I’ll say yes. And I don’t want to say yes. I don’t
think.
  
Or maybe part of me does. The same part of me that’s ready to say yes to Tad, too, when he
decides the time is finally right, and he pops the question.
Instead, I look into the sudsy brown water in the sink.
Then I sigh.
“Let me think about it, Dad, okay?”
I don’t see Dad smile, because of course I’m not looking at him. But I sense the smile
anyway.
“Sure thing, honey,” he says. “Just don’t think about it too long. Opportunities like this don’t
last forever. Well…you know that from last time.”
Do I ever.
12
Play date
(I wish I had one)
Play mate
(Wish I had one of those, too)
Play straight
(No cheatin’ with this one)
No fake
(I really mean it this time)
“Play Date”
Written by Heather Wells
I don’t have a clue anything out of the ordinary is taking place over on Washington Square
West until I round the corner of Waverly Place the next morning, sleepily slurping the
whipped cream topping off my grande café mocha. (About which, as Gavin would put it,
whatevs. Like I totally didn’t go running yesterday. I deserve a little whipped cream. Besides,
whipped cream is dairy, and a girl needs dairy to fight off osteoporosis. Everyone knows
this.)
I’m licking off my whipped cream mustache when I see it—or think I see it, anyway: a giant
rat.
And I don’t mean your everyday, gray-brown, cat-sized subway rat, either. I mean a GIANT,
twelve-foot, inflated, semi-lifelike replica of a rat, standing on its hind legs and snarling
directly across the street from Fischer Hall’s front door.
  
But how can this be? What would a twelve-foot inflatable rat be doing in front of my place of
work? Could I be seeing things? It’s true I only just woke up. Relishing the fact that I got to
sleep in this morning—no running for me—I rolled out of bed at eight-thirty, and, forgoing
my morning shower—well, okay, bath. Who bothers with a shower when you can bathe lying
down?—I just pulled on a fresh pair of jeans and shirt, ran a brush through my hair, washed
my face, slapped on some moisturizer and makeup, and was out the door at five of nine. Time
to spare for that grande café mocha. I didn’t even see Cooper or my dad. Both of them being
early birds, they were already up and out—Dad had even taken Lucy for her morning walk. I
was definitely going to miss that when Dad was gone, that was for sure.
But it doesn’t matter how many times I stand there and squeeze my eyes shut, then reopen
them again. The rat doesn’t disappear. I’m fully awake.
Worse, marching back and forth in front of the rat, carrying picket signs that said things like
New York College Doesn’t Care About Its Student Employees and Health Care Now! were
dozens—maybe hundreds—of protesters. Many of them were raggedy-looking grad students,
baggy-pantsed and dreadlocked.
But many more of them were in uniform. Worse, they were in New York College campus
security, housekeeping, and engineering uniforms.
And that’s when it struck. The cold, hard terror that crept around my heart like icy tentacles.
Sarah had done it. She had convinced the GSC to strike.
And she’d convinced the other major unions on campus to strike along with it.
If my life were a movie, I’d have tossed my grande café mocha to the sidewalk just then, and
sunk slowly to my knees, clutching my head and screaming, “Nooooooooo! WHY????
WHYYYYYY????????”
But since my life isn’t a movie, I settle for tossing my drink—which I suddenly feel way too
queasy to finish—into the nearest Big Apple trash receptacle, then crossing the street—after
looking both ways (even though it’s one way, of course—you can never be too sure on a
college campus if a skateboarder or Chinese food delivery guy on a bike is heading the wrong
way)—cutting between the many news vans parked along the sidewalk until I reach a tight
circle of reporters clustered around Sarah, who is giving the morning news shows all her best
sound bites.
“What I’d like to know,” Sarah is saying, in a loud, clear voice, “is why President Phillip
Allington, after assuring the student community that their tuition wouldn’t be raised and that
neither he nor his trustees would receive a salary increase this year, went on to raise tuition
by six point nine percent, then received a six-figure salary increase—making him the highest
paid president of any research college in the nation—while his graduate student teachers are
not offered stipends equal to a living wage or health benefits that enable them even to use the
student health center!”
A reporter from Channel 7 with hair almost as big as Sarah’s has gotten from lack of sleep
(and Frizz-Ease—although I assume the reporter’s hair pouf is on purpose) spins around and
points her microphone into a surprised-looking Muffy Fowler’s face. Muffy’s only just
  
stumbled onto the scene…literally stumbled, on her four-inch heels, having just arrived via a
cab, clutching a red pocketbook to her tightly cinched Coach trench, and trying to pull stray
curls of hair from her heavily glossed lips.
“Ms. Fowler, as college spokesperson, how would you respond to these allegations?” the
reporter asks, as Muffy blinks her wide Bambi eyes.
“Well, I’d have to check m-my notes,” Muffy stammers. “B-but it’s my understanding the
president donated the difference in his salary between this year and last year b-back to the
college—”
“To what?” Sarah calls with a sneer. “The Pansies?”
Everyone laughs. President Allington’s support of the Pansies, New York College’s less than
stellar Division Three basketball team, is legendary, even among the reporters.
“I’ll have to check into that,” Muffy says stiffly. “But I can assure you, President Allington is
very concerned about—”
“Not concerned enough, apparently,” Sarah goes on, loudly enough to drown Muffy out, and
cause every microphone in the vicinity to swing back toward her. “He’s apparently willing to
let students at his own college suffer through the last six weeks of their semester without
assistant teaching instructors, security guards, and trash removal—”
“That’s not true!” Muffy cries shrilly. “President Allington is totally willing to negotiate!
What he won’t be is held hostage by a group of radical leftist socialists!”
I know even before Sarah sucks in her breath that Muffy’s said exactly the wrong thing. The
reporters have already lost interest—the networks have moved on to their mid-morning
programming anyway, so they’ve begun to pack up their equipment. They’ll be back—
maybe—for an update at noon.
But Sarah’s already rallying her troops.
“Did you hear that?” she roars at her fellow picketers. “The president’s spokesperson just
called us a bunch of radical leftist socialists! Just because we want fair wages and a health
care package! What do you have to say to that?”
There is some confused muttering, mostly because it seems to be so early in the morning, and
no one really knows what they’re doing yet. Or possibly because no one heard Sarah
properly, on account of all the noise from the news teams packing up. Sarah, apparently
realizing this, jumps off the wooden platform she was standing on and heaves a megaphone
to her lips.
“People,” she cries, her voice crackling loudly enough that, over in the chess circle, the old
men enjoying their first game of the morning hunch their shoulders and glare resentfully over
at us. “What do we want?”
The picketers, marching dolefully around the giant rat, reply, “Fair wages.”
  
“WHAT?” Sarah yells.
“FAIR WAGES,” the picketers reply.
“That’s more like it,” Sarah says. “And when do we want them?”
“NOW,” the picketers reply.
“Holy Christ,” Muffy says, looking at the picketers in a defeated way. I can’t help feeling a
little sorry for her. The rat—which has painted-on drool dripping down from its bared, yellow
fangs—does look really intimidating, as it sways gently in the soft spring breeze.
“Hang in there,” I say, patting her softly on the shoulder.
“This is because they arrested the kid,” she says, still staring at the rat. “Right?”
“I guess so,” I say.
“But he had a gun,” she says. “I mean…of course he did it. He had a gun.”
“I guess they don’t think so,” I say.
“I’m gonna get fired,” Muffy says. “They hired me to keep this from happening. And now
I’m gonna get fired. And I’ve only had this job three weeks. I paid twenty grand in broker’s
fees for my place, too. I so
That’s when I notice something that makes me forget about my upset stomach.
And that’s Magda, hurrying out of Fischer Hall in her pink smock, and inching her way
across the street through the backed-up cabs and toward the picket line, carefully balancing a
steaming mug of coffee in her hands…
…which she presents to a picketer in a gray New York College security guard’s uniform,
who stops marching, lowers his The Future of Academia Is ON THE LINE sign, and beams
at her appreciatively…
And whom I realize is none other that Pete.
Who is not behind his desk like he is supposed to be.
  
Instead, he is standing in the park. ON A PICKET LINE.
“Oh my God,” I race up to him, completely forgetting Muffy, to shout. “Are you insane?
What are you doing here? Why aren’t you inside? Who’s manning the security desk?”
Pete looks down at me calmly from the mug of Fischer Hall’s finest he’s delicately blowing
across.
“Good morning to you, too, Heather,” he says. “And how are you today?”
“I’m just peachy,” I yell. “Seriously. Who is manning your desk?”
“No one.” Magda is looking at me with strangely arched brows. Then I realize her brows
aren’t arched on purpose. They’re just newly waxed. “I’ve been keeping an eye on it.
Someone from the president’s office has been sniffing around. He says they’ll be sending
some people from a private security firm over. I don’t know if that’s the best idea, though,
Heather. I mean, someone from a private security firm isn’t going to know about the
attendants, you know, for the specially abled students in the handicapped accessible rooms?
And how is someone from a private security firm going to know it’s not okay to let the kids
sign in the delivery guys from Charlie Mom’s, or they’ll stick a menu under every single door
in the entire building?”
I groan, remembering my conversation with Cooper from the day before. He’d been totally
right. We were going to get mob-run security and custodial replacement staffs. I just knew it.
Then I blink at Magda. “Wait a minute—how come you aren’t striking?”
“We’re with a different union,” Magda explains. “Food services, as opposed to hotel and
automotive.”
“Automotive?” I shake my head. “That makes no sense whatsoever. What’s an automotive
union doing, letting academics into—”
“You!”
We all jump as Sarah’s voice—made ten times louder by the megaphone she’s speaking
into—cuts into our conversation.
“Are you here to socialize or make social change?” Sarah demands of Pete.
“Jesus Christ,” Pete mutters. “I’m just having a cup of coffee with my friends—”
“Get back on the line!” Sarah bellows.
Pete hands his coffee mug back to Magda with a sigh. “I gotta go,” he says. Then he hefts his
picket sign, and returns to his place in the circle around the giant rat.
“This,” Magda says, as she watches protesters shuffle past, as animated as the undead in a
zombie flick, “is not good.”
  
“Tell me about it,” I say. “I better go watch the desk. Bring me a bagel?”
“With the works?” Magda asks, the works being code for full-fat cream cheese and, I’m sorry
to say, three strips of bacon.
“Absolutely.”
I’ve made myself at home at Pete’s desk (after removing what I can only assume is a very old
and very stale doughnut and not, in fact, a door stop from his middle desk drawer…although I
can’t help noticing the trash can into which I deposit it has not been emptied in some time,
and realize Julio and his crack housekeeping staff aren’t around…a realization that, more
than any other, depresses me), and instituted what I consider the beginning of Heather’s New
World Order—All Residents Will Stop and Show ID Long Enough for Me to Examine the
Photo Closely, since unlike Pete, I don’t know every resident by sight, a fact which appears
to annoy them no end…but not as much as they’re going to be annoyed when I launch Throw
Your Own Trash in the Dumpster Outside—when the “guy from the president’s office”
Magda mentioned reappears. He’s a flunky I’ve never seen before in an expensive suit, and
he’s accompanied by a much larger guy in a much less expensive, but much shinier suit.
“Are you Heather?” the guy from the president’s office wants to know. When I say that I am,
he proceeds to inform me that Mr. Rosetti—the man in the shiny suit, which happens to be
coupled very charmingly with a lavender silk shirt and several very attractive gold chains
which lay nestled among some wiry graying chest hairs, along with multiple gold rings, one
on each of the man’s not unsausagelike fingers—is going to be supplying “security” for the
building, and could I please inform him of any special security concerns of which I might be
aware that are unique to Fischer Hall.
At which point I kindly inform the man from the president’s office that Fischer Hall’s
security needs are taken care of for the foreseeable future. But I thank him for his concern.
The man—whose name, he has informed me, is Brian—looks confused.
“How is that possible?” Brian asks. “The college security force is out on strike. I’m supposed
to be overseeing getting replacements in all the buildings—”
“Oh, I’ve already taken care of that here in Fischer Hall,” I say…just as a tall, spindly kid
comes rushing into the building, tugging off his backpack, out of breath but only one minute
late.
“Sorry, Heather,” he pants. “I just got your text. I was in Bio. I’ll take the ten to two shift.
Are you really paying ten bucks an hour? Can I have the six to ten shift tonight, too? And the
ten to two tomorrow?”
I nod as I rise gracefully from Pete’s chair.
“The six to ten tonight’s already taken,” I say. “But the ten to two tomorrow’s all yours. If of
course,” I add, “this whole thing isn’t settled by then.”
  
“Sweet.” Jeremy slides into the seat I’ve vacated, then barks at a student who’s just entered
the building, flashed his ID, then strolled by without waiting to be acknowledged, “Stop!
Come back here! Let me see that photo!” The student, rolling his eyes, does what he’s told.
Brian, on the other hand, looks more confused than ever. “Wait,” he says, as I stroll to the
reception desk to mark Jeremy’s name onto the schedule I’ve made up. “You’re having
students run the security desk?”
“Work-study students, yeah,” I explain. “It only costs the college a few cents for every dollar
an hour we pay them. I imagine that’s a fraction of what you’re paying, um, Mr. Rosetti’s
firm, and my student workers know the building and the residents. And I have something like
ten thousand dollars left in my student worker budget for the year. That’s more than enough
to see me through the strike. We’ve been pretty thrifty this year.”
I don’t mention that this is partly due to my tendency to steal paper from other offices.
“I, uh, don’t know about this,” Brian says, whipping a Treo from his suit pocket and banging
away at it. “I need to check with my supervisor. None of the other buildings is doing this. It’s
really not necessary. The president’s office has already budgeted for Mr. Rosetti’s firm to fill
in for the course of the strike.”
Mr. Rosetti spreads his bejeweled—and quite hairy—fingers and says, philosophically, “If
the young lady does not need our services, the young lady does not need our services.
Perhaps we can be of use elsewhere.”
“You know where I bet you can be of use,” I say to Mr. Rosetti. “Wasser Hall.”
“Excuse me.” A middle-aged woman with a mom haircut has come up to the desk. She is
wearing a dark green sweatshirt with a quilted-on picture of two rag dolls, one black, and one
white, holding hands, on the front. “Could you tell me—”
“If you want to call up to a resident”—Felicia, the student worker behind the reception desk,
doesn’t even look up from the copy of Cosmo she has snagged from someone’s mailbox—
“use the phone on the wall. Dial zero for information to find out the number.”
“Wasser Hall,” Mr. Rosetti says. “That sounds good. Hey, kid.” He pokes Brian, who is
calling someone on his cell phone. “Whatever your name is. Let’s go over to this Wasser
Hall.”
“Just one minute, please,” Brian says, in an agitated manner. “I’d really like to get through to
someone about this. Because I really don’t think this is an approved allocation of work-study
student funds. Heather, did your boss approve this allocation of work-study student funds?”
“No,” I say.
“I didn’t think so,” Brian says, with a smug look on his face. Evidently having been able to
reach no one on his cell phone, he snaps it closed. “Is your boss in? Because I think we’d
better speak to him.”
“Well,” I say. “That’s going to be hard.”
  
“Why, for heaven’s sake?” Brain wants to know.
“Because he got shot in the head yesterday,” I reply.
Brian flinches. But Mr. Rosetti just nods.
“It happens,” he says, with a shrug.
“Heather.” Brian has visibly paled. “I am so, so sorry. I…I forgot. I…I knew this was Fischer
Hall, but in all the confusion, I…”
“Excuse me.” The woman with the mom haircut leans across the reception desk again. “I
think there’s been a mistake.”
“No, there hasn’t,” Felicia finally looks up from her magazine to inform her. “Due to the
college’s privacy policy, we are not allowed to give out any student information, even to
parents. Or people who say they’re parents. Even if they show ID.”
“Brian, let’s leave this little lady alone,” Mr. Rosetti says. “She seems to have things well in
hand.”
I smile at him sweetly. Really, he doesn’t seem that bad. Except for the hundreds of
thousands I know he’s going to be charging the college for a job I can get done for mere
pennies…
“I can’t apologize enough,” Brian is saying. “We’ll just go now…”
“I really do think that would be best,” I say, still smiling sweetly.
The front desk phone rings. Felicia picks it up with a courteous “Fischer Hall, this is Felicia,
how may I direct your call?”
“It was very nice to meet you, ma’am,” Mr. Rosetti says, with a courtly nod in my direction.
“Nice to meet you, too, sir,” I say to him. Really, he’s so nice. So old school. How could
Cooper have thought the mob was responsible for Owen’s murder? I mean, maybe they did it.
But even if they did, Mr. Rosetti couldn’t have been the shooter. For one thing, all that
jewelry would have made him way too conspicuous. Someone surely would have
remembered seeing him outside the building.
And for another, he’s just so nice.
Maybe it’s wrong of me to assume, just because he’s Italian American, and in the private
security business, and wears a loud suit and a lot of jewelry, that he’s even in the Mafia in the
first place. Maybe he’s not. Maybe he’s just—
“Excuse me.” Mom Haircut is looking at me now. “Aren’t you Heather Wells?”
