What is the secret, the mystery, of a successful business interview?
Well, according to former Harvard president Charles W. Eliot, "There
is no mystery about successful business intercourse. ... Exclusive
attention to the person who is speaking to you is very important.
Nothing else is so flattering as that."
Eliot himself was a past master of the art of listening, Henry James,
one of America's first great novelists, recalled: "Dr. Eliot's listening
was not mere silence, but a form of activity. Sitting very erect on the
end of his spine with hands joined in his lap, making no movement
except that he revolved his thumbs around each other faster or
slower, he faced his interlocutor and seemed to be hearing with his
eyes as well as his ears. He listened with his mind and attentively
considered what you had to say while you said it. ... At the end of an
interview the person who had talked to him felt that he had had his
say."
Self-evident, isn't it? You don't have to study for four years in
Harvard to discover that. Yet I know and you know department store
owners who will rent expensive space, buy their goods economically,
dress their windows appealingly, spend thousands of dollars in
advertising and then hire clerks who haven't the sense to be good
listeners - clerks who interrupt customers, contradict them, irritate
them, and all but drive them from the store.
A department store in Chicago almost lost a regular customer who
spent several thousand dollars each year in that store because a
sales clerk wouldn't listen. Mrs. Henrietta Douglas, who took our
course in Chicago, had purchased a coat at a special sale. After she
had brought it home she noticed that there was a tear in the lining.
She came back the next day and asked the sales clerk to exchange
it. The clerk refused even to listen to her complaint. "You bought this
at a special sale," she said. She pointed to a sign on the wall. "Read
that," she exclaimed. " 'All sales are final.' Once you bought it, you
have to keep it. Sew up the lining yourself."
"But this was damaged merchandise," Mrs. Douglas complained.
"Makes no difference," the clerk interrupted. "Final's final "
Mrs. Douglas was about to walk out indignantly, swearing never to
return to that store ever, when she was greeted by the department
manager, who knew her from her many years of patronage. Mrs.
Douglas told her what had happened.
The manager listened attentively to the whole story, examined the
coat and then said: "Special sales are 'final' so we can dispose of
merchandise at the end of the season. But this 'no return' policy
does not apply to damaged goods. We will certainly repair or replace
the lining, or if you prefer, give you your money back."
What a difference in treatment! If that manager had not come along
and listened to the Customer, a long-term patron of that store could
have been lost forever.
Listening is just as important in one's home life as in the world of
business. Millie Esposito of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, made it her
business to listen carefully when one of her children wanted to speak
with her. One evening she was sitting in the kitchen with her son,
Robert, and after a brief discussion of something that was on his
mind, Robert said: "Mom, I know that you love me very much."
Mrs. Esposito was touched and said: "Of course I love you very
much. Did you doubt it?"
Robert responded: "No, but I really know you love me because
whenever I want to talk to you about something you stop whatever
you are doing and listen to me."
The chronic kicker, even the most violent critic, will frequently soften
and be subdued in the presence of a patient, sympathetic listener - a
listener who will he silent while the irate fault-finder dilates like a
king cobra and spews the poison out of his system. To illustrate: The
New York Telephone Company discovered a few years ago that it
had to deal with one of the most vicious customers who ever cursed
a customer service representative. And he did curse. He raved. He
threatened to tear the phone out by its roots. He refused to pay
certain charges that he declared were false. He wrote letters to the
newspapers. He filed innumerable complaints with the Public Service
Commission, and he started several suits against the telephone
company.
At last, one of the company's most skillful "trouble-shooters" was
sent to interview this stormy petrel. This "troubleshooter" listened
and let the cantankerous customer enjoy himself pouring out his
tirade. The telephone representative listened and said "yes" and
sympathized with his grievance.
"He raved on and I listened for nearlv three hours," the
"troubleshooter" said as he related his experiences before one of the
author's classes. "Then I went back and listened some more. I
interviewed him four times, and before the fourth visit was over I
had become a charter member of an organization he was starting.
He called it the 'Telephone Subscribers' Protective Association.' I am
still a member of this organization, and, so far as I know, I'm the
only member in the world today besides Mr. ----.
"I listened and sympathized with him on every point that he made
during these interviews. He had never had a telephone
representative talk with him that way before, and he became almost
friendly. The point on which I went to see him was not even
mentioned on the first visit, nor was it mentioned on the second or
third, but upon the fourth interview, I closed the case completely, he
paid all his bills in full, and for the first time in the history of his
difficulties with the telephone company he voluntarily withdrew his
complaints from the Public Service Commission."
Doubtless Mr. ----- had considered himself a holy crusader,
defending the public rights against callous exploitation. But in reality,
what he had really wanted was a feeling of importance. He got this
feeling of importance at first by kicking and complaining. But as soon
as he got his feeling of importance from a representative of the
company, his imagined grievances vanished into thin air.
One morning years ago, an angry customer stormed into the office
of Julian F. Detmer, founder of the Detmer Woolen Company, which
later became the world's largest distributor of woolens to the
tailoring trade.
"This man owed us a small sum of money," Mr. Detmer explained to
me. "The customer denied it, but we knew he was wrong. So our
credit department had insisted that he pay. After getting a number of
letters from our credit department, he packed his grip, made a trip to
Chicago, and hurried into my office to inform me not only that he
was not going to pay that bill, but that he was never going to buy
another dollar's worth of goods from the Detmer Woolen Company.
"I listened patiently to all he had to say. I was tempted to interrupt,
but I realized that would be bad policy, So I let him talk himself out.
When he finally simmered down and got in a receptive mood, I said
quietly: 'I want to thank vou for coming to Chicago to tell me about
this. You have done me a great favor, for if our credit department
has annoyed you, it may annoy other good customers, and that
would be just too bad. Believe me, I am far more eager to hear this
than you are to tell it.'
"That was the last thing in the world he expected me to say. I think
he was a trifle disappointed, because he had come to Chicago to tell
me a thing or two, but here I was thanking him instead of scrapping
with him. I assured him we would wipe the charge off the books and
forget it, because he was a very careful man with only one account
to look after, while our clerks had to look after thousands. Therefore,
he was less likely to be wrong than we were.
"I told him that I understood exactly how he felt and that, if I were
in his shoes, I should undoubtedly feel precisely as he did. Since he
wasn't going to buy from us anymore, I recommended some other
woolen houses.
"In the past, we had usually lunched together when he came to
Chicago, so I invited him to have lunch with me this day. He
accepted reluctantly, but when we came back to the office he placed
a larger order than ever before. He returned home in a softened
mood and, wanting to be just as fair with us as we had been with
him, looked over his bills, found one that had been mislaid, and sent
us a check with his apologies.
"Later, when his wife presented him with a baby boy, he gave his
son the middle name of Detmer, and he remained a friend and
customer of the house until his death twenty-two years afterwards."
Years ago, a poor Dutch immigrant boy washed the windows of a
bakery shop after school to help support his family. His people were
so poor that in addition he used to go out in the street with a basket
every day and collect stray bits of coal that had fallen in the gutter
where the coal wagons had delivered fuel. That boy, Edward Bok,
never got more than six years of schooling in his life; yet eventually
he made himself one of the most successful magazine editors in the
history of American journalism. How did he do it? That is a long
story, but how he got his start can be told briefly. He got his start by
using the principles advocated in this chapter.
He left school when he was thirteen and became an office boy for
Western Union, but he didn't for one moment give up the idea of an
education. Instead, he started to educate himself, He saved his
carfares and went without lunch until he had enough money to buy
an encyclopedia of American biography - and then he did an
unheard-of thing. He read the lives of famous people and wrote
them asking for additional information about their childhoods. He
was a good listener. He asked famous people to tell him more about
themselves. He wrote General James A. Garfield, who was then
running for President, and asked if it was true that he was once a
tow boy on a canal; and Garfield replied. He wrote General Grant
asking about a certain battle, and Grant drew a map for him and
invited this fourteen-year old boy to dinner and spent the evening
talking to him.
Soon our Western Union messenger boy was corresponding with
many of the most famous people in the nation: Ralph Waldo
Emerson, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Longfellow, Mrs. Abraham Lincoln,
Louisa May Alcott, General Sherman and Jefferson Davis. Not only
did he correspond with these distinguished people, but as soon as he
got a vacation, he visited many of them as a welcome guest in their
homes. This experience imbued him with a confidence that was
invaluable. These men and women fired him with a vision and
ambition that shaped his life. And all this, let me repeat, was made
possible solely by the application of the principles we are discussing
here.
Isaac F. Marcosson, a journalist who interviewed hundreds of
celebrities, declared that many people fail to make a favorable
impression because they don't listen attentively. "They have been so
much concerned with what they are going to say next that they do
not keep their ears open. ... Very important people have told me that
they prefer good listeners to good talkers, but the ability to listen
seems rarer than almost any other good trait ."
And not only important personages crave a good listener, but
ordinary folk do too. As the Reader's Digest once said: "Many
persons call a doctor when all they want is an audience,"
During the darkest hours of the Civil War, Lincoln wrote to an old
friend in Springfield, Illinois, asking him to come to Washington.
Lincoln said he had some problems he wanted to discuss with him.
The old neighbor called at the White House, and Lincoln talked to
him for hours about the advisability of issuing a proclamation freeing
the slaves. Lincoln went over all the arguments for and against such
a move, and then read letters and newspaper articles, some
denouncing him for not freeing the slaves and others denouncing
him for fear he was going to free them. After talking for hours,
Lincoln shook hands with his old neighbor, said good night, and sent
him back to Illinois without even asking for his opinion. Lincoln had
done all the talking himself. That seemed to clarify his mind. "He
seemed to feel easier after that talk," the old friend said. Lincoln
hadn't wanted advice, He had wanted merely a friendly, sympathetic
listener to whom he could unburden himself. That's what we all want
when we are in trouble. That is frequently all the irritated customer
wants, and the dissatisfied employee or the hurt friend.
One of the great listeners of modern times was Sigmund Freud. A
man who met Freud described his manner of listening: "It struck me
so forcibly that I shall never forget him. He had qualities which I had
never seen in any other man. Never had I seen such concentrated
attention. There was none of that piercing 'soul penetrating gaze'
business. His eyes were mild and genial. His voice was low and kind.
His gestures were few. But the attention he gave me, his
appreciation of what I said, even when I said it badly, was
extraordinary, You've no idea what it meant to be listened to like
that."
If you want to know how to make people shun you and laugh at you
behind your back and even despise you, here is the recipe: Never
listen to anyone for long. Talk incessantly about yourself. If you have
an idea while the other person is talking, don't wait for him or her to
finish: bust right in and interrupt in the middle of a sentence.
Do you know people like that? I do, unfortunately; and the
astonishing part of it is that some of them are prominent.
Bores, that is all they are - bores intoxicated with their own egos,
drunk with a sense of their own importance.
People who talk only of themselves think only of themselves. And
"those people who think only of themselves," Dr. Nicholas Murray
Butler, longtime president of Columbia University, said, "are
hopelessly uneducated. They are not educated," said Dr. Butler, "no
matter how instructed they may be."
So if you aspire to be a good conversationalist, be an attentive
listener. To be interesting, be interested. Ask questions that other
persons will enjoy answering. Encourage them to talk about
themselves and their accomplishments.
Remember that the people you are talking to are a hundred times
more interested in themselves and their wants and problems than
they are in you and your problems. A person's toothache means
more to that person than a famine in China which kills a million
people. A boil on one's neck interests one more than forty
earthquakes in Africa. Think of that the next time you start a
conversation.
• Principle 4 - Be a good listener. Encourage others to talk about
themselves.
~~~~~~~
5 - How To Interest People
Everyone who was ever a guest of Theodore Roosevelt was
astonished at the range and diversity of his knowledge. Whether his
visitor was a cowboy or a Rough Rider, a New York politician or a
diplomat, Roosevelt knew what to say. And how was it done? The
answer was simple. Whenever Roosevelt expected a visitor, he sat
up late the night before, reading up on the subject in which he knew
his guest was particularly interested.
For Roosevelt knew, as all leaders know, that the royal road to a
person's heart is to talk about the things he or she treasures most.
The genial William Lyon Phelps, essayist and professor of literature
at Yale, learned this lesson early in life.
"When I was eight years old and was spending a weekend visiting
my Aunt Libby Linsley at her home in Stratford on the Housatonic,"
he wrote in his essay on Human Nature, "a middle-aged man called
one evening, and after a polite skirmish with my aunt, he devoted his
attention to me. At that time, I happened to be excited about boats,
and the visitor discussed the subject in a way that seemed to me
particularly interesting. After he left, I spoke of him with enthusiasm.
What a man! My aunt informed me he was a New York lawyer, that
he cared nothing whatever about boats - that he took not the
slightest interest in the subject. 'But why then did he talk all the time
about boats?'
" 'Because he is a gentleman. He saw you were interested in boats,
and he talked about the things he knew would interest and please
you. He made himself agreeable.' "
And William Lyon Phelps added: "I never forgot my aunt's remark."
As I write this chapter, I have before me a letter from Edward L.
Chalif, who was active in Boy Scout work.
"One day I found I needed a favor," wrote Mr. Chalif. "A big Scout
jamboree was coming off in Europe, and I wanted the president of
one of the largest corporations in America to pay the expenses of
one of my boys for the trip.
"Fortunately, just before I went to see this man, I heard that he had
drawn a check for a million dollars, and that after it was canceled, he
had had it framed.
"So the first thing I did when I entered his office was to ask to see
the check. A check for a million dollars! I told him I never knew that
anybody had ever written such a check, and that I wanted to tell my
boys that I had actually seen a check for a million dollars. He gladly
showed it to me; I admired it and asked him to tell me all about how
it happened to be drawn."
You notice, don't you, that Mr. Chalif didn't begin by talking about
the Boy Scouts, or the jamboree in Europe, or what it was he
wanted? He talked in terms of what interested the other man. Here's
the result:
"Presently, the man I was interviewing said: 'Oh, by the way, what
was it you wanted to see me about?' So I told him.
"To my vast surprise," Mr. Chalif continues, "he not only granted
immediately what I asked for, but much more. I had asked him to
send only one boy to Europe, but he sent five boys and myself, gave
me a letter of credit for a thousand dollars and told us to stay in
Europe for seven weeks. He also gave me letters of introduction to
his branch presidents, putting them at our service, and he himself
met us in Paris and showed us the town.
Since then, he has given jobs to some of the boys whose parents
were in want, and he is still active in our group.
"Yet I know if I hadn't found out what he was interested in, and got
him warmed up first, I wouldn't have found him one-tenth as easy to
approach."
Is this a valuable technique to use in business? Is it? Let's see, Take
Henry G. Duvernoy of Duvemoy and Sons, a wholesale baking firm in
New York.
Mr. Duvernoy had been trying to sell bread to a certain New York
hotel. He had called on the manager every week for four years. He
went to the same social affairs the manager attended. He even took
rooms in the hotel and lived there in order to get the business. But
he failed.
"Then," said Mr. Duvernoy, "after studying human relations, I
resolved to change my tactics. I decided to find out what interested
this man - what caught his enthusiasm.
"I discovered he belonged to a society of hotel executives called the
Hotel Greeters of America. He not only belonged, but his bubbling
enthusiasm had made him president of the organization, and
president of the International Greeters. No matter where its
conventions were held, he would be there.
"So when I saw him the next day, I began talking about the
Greeters. What a response I got. What a response! He talked to me
for half an hour about the Greeters, his tones vibrant with
enthusiasm. I could plainly see that this society was not only his
hobby, it was the passion of his life. Before I left his office, he had
'sold' me a membership in his organization.
"In the meantime, I had said nothing about bread. But a few days
later, the steward of his hotel phoned me to come over with samples
and prices.
" 'I don't know what you did to the old boy,' the steward greeted me,
'but he sure is sold on you!'
"Think of it! I had been drumming at that man for four years - trying
to get his business - and I'd still be drumming at him if I hadn't
finally taken the trouble to find out what he was interested in, and
what he enjoyed talking about."
Edward E. Harriman of Hagerstown, Maryland, chose to live in the
beautiful Cumberland Valley of Maryland after he completed his
military service. Unfortunately, at that time there were few jobs
available in the area. A little research uncovered the fact that a
number of companies in the area were either owned or controlled by
an unusual business maverick, R. J. Funkhouser, whose rise from
poverty to riches intrigued Mr. Harriman. However, he was known for
being inaccessible to job seekers. Mr. Harriman wrote:
"I interviewed a number of people and found that his major interest
was anchored in his drive for power and money. Since he protected
himself from people like me by use of a dedicated and stern
secretary, I studied her interests and goals and only then I paid an
unannounced visit at her office. She had been Mr. Funkhouser's
orbiting satellite for about fifteen years. When I told her I had a
proposition for him which might translate itself into financial and
political success for him, she became enthused. I also conversed
with her about her constructive participation in his success. After this
conversation she arranged for me to meet Mr. Funkhouser.
"I entered his huge and impressive office determined not to ask
directly for a job. He was seated behind a large carved desk and
thundered at me, 'How about it, young man?' I said, 'Mr.
Funkhouser, I believe I can make money for you.' He immediately
rose and invited me to sit in one of the large upholstered chairs. I
enumerated my ideas and the qualifications I had to realize these
ideas, as well as how they would contribute to his personal success
and that of his businesses.
" 'R. J.,' as he became known to me, hired me at once and for over
twenty years I have grown in his enterprises and we both have
prospered."
Talking in terms of the other person's interests pays off for both
parties. Howard Z. Herzig, a leader in the field of employee
communications, has always followed this principle. When asked
what reward he got from it, Mr. Herzig responded that he not only
received a different reward from each person but that in general the
reward had been an enlargement of his life each time he spoke to
someone.
• Principle 5 - Talk in terms of the other person's interests.
~~~~~~~
6 - How To Make People Like You Instantly
I was waiting in line to register a letter in the post office at Thirtythird
Street and Eighth Avenue in New York. I noticed that the clerk
appeared to be bored with the job -weighing envelopes, handing out
stamps, making change, issuing receipts - the same monotonous
grind year after year. So I said to myself: "I am going to try to make
that clerk like me. Obviously, to make him like me, I must say
something nice, not about myself, but about him. So I asked myself,
'What is there about him that I can honestly admire?' " That is
sometimes a hard question to answer, especially with strangers; but,
in this case, it happened to be easy. I instantly saw something I
admired no end.
So while he was weighing my envelope, I remarked with enthusiasm:
"I certainly wish I had your head of hair."
He looked up, half-startled, his face beaming with smiles. "Well, it
isn't as good as it used to be," he said modestly. I assured him that
although it might have lost some of its pristine glory, nevertheless it
was still magnificent. He was immensely pleased. We carried on a
pleasant little conversation and the last thing he said to me was:
"Many people have admired my hair."
I'll bet that person went out to lunch that day walking on air. I'll bet
he went home that night and told his wife about it. I'll bet he looked
in the mirror and said: "It is a beautiful head of hair."
I told this story once in public and a man asked me afterwards:
"'What did you want to get out of him?"
What was I trying to get out of him!!! What was I trying to get out of
him!!!
If we are so contemptibly selfish that we can't radiate a little
happiness and pass on a bit of honest appreciation without trying to
get something out of the other person in return - if our souls are no
bigger than sour crab apples, we shall meet with the failure we so
richly deserve. Oh yes, I did want something out of that chap. I
wanted something priceless. And I got it. I got the feeling that I had
done something for him without his being able to do anything
whatever in return for me. That is a feeling that flows and sings in
your memory lung after the incident is past.
There is one all-important law of human conduct. If we obey that
law, we shall almost never get into trouble. In fact, that law, if
obeyed, will bring us countless friends and constant happiness. But
the very instant we break the law, we shall get into endless trouble.
The law is this: Always make the other person feel important. John
Dewey, as we have already noted, said that the desire to be
important is the deepest urge in human nature; and William James
said: "The deepest principle in human nature is the craving to be
appreciated." As I have already pointed out, it is this urge that
differentiates us from the animals. It is this urge that has been
responsible for civilization itself.
Philosophers have been speculating on the rules of human
relationships for thousands of years, and out of all that speculation,
there has evolved only one important precept. It is not new. It is as
old as history. Zoroaster taught it to his followers in Persia twentyfive
hundred years ago. Confucius preached it in China twenty-four
centuries ago. Lao-tse, the founder of Taoism, taught it to his
disciples in the Valley of the Han. Buddha preached it on the bank of
the Holy Ganges five hundred years before Christ. The sacred books
of Hinduism taught it a thousand years before that. Jesus taught it
among the stony hills of Judea nineteen centuries ago. Jesus
summed it up in one thought -probably the most important rule in
the world: "Do unto others as you would have others do unto you."
You want the approval of those with whom you come in contact. You
want recognition of your true worth. You want a feeling that you are
important in your little world. You don't want to listen to cheap,
insincere flattery, but you do crave sincere appreciation. You want
your friends and associates to be, as Charles Schwab put it, "hearty
in their approbation and lavish in their praise." All of us want that.
So let's obey the Golden Rule, and give unto others what we would
have others give unto us, How? When? Where? The answer is: All
the time, everywhere.
David G. Smith of Eau Claire, Wisconsin, told one of our classes how
he handled a delicate situation when he was asked to take charge of
the refreshment booth at a charity concert,
"The night of the concert I arrived at the park and found two elderly
ladies in a very bad humor standing next to the refreshment stand.
Apparently each thought that she was in charge of this project. As I
stood there pondering what to do, me of the members of the
sponsoring committee appeared and handed me a cash box and
thanked me for taking over the project. She introduced Rose and
Jane as my helpers and then ran off.
"A great silence ensued. Realizing that the cash box was a symbol of
authority (of sorts), I gave the box to Rose and explained that I
might not be able to keep the money straight and that if she took
care of it I would feel better. I then suggested to Jane that she show
two teenagers who had been assigned to refreshments how to
operate the soda machine, and I asked her to be responsible for that
part of the project.
"The evening was very enjoyable with Rose happily counting the
money, Jane supervising the teenagers, and me enjoying the
concert."
You don't have to wait until you are ambassador to France or
chairman of the Clambake Committee of your lodge before you use
this philosophy of appreciation. You can work magic with it almost
every day.
If, for example, the waitress brings us mashed potatoes when we
have ordered French fried, let's say: "I'm sorry to trouble you, but I
prefer French fried." She'll probably reply, "No trouble at all" and will
be glad to change the potatoes, because we have shown respect for
her.
