“I’m sorry, Amelia, but you have to do it. We have to see if it’s her perfume.” She did, inhaled. Gagged, nearly vomited.
I’m going to puke, she thought. Just like Nick and me that night at Pancho’s, done in by those damn frozen daiquiris. Two hard-ass cops, swigging down sissy drinks with blue plastic swordfish swimming in them.
“Do you smell the perfume?”
Here it comes ... Gagging again.
No. No! She closed her eyes, concentrated on her aching joints. The most painful one—her knee. And, miraculously, the wave of nausea passed. “It’s not her perfume.”
“Good. So maybe our boy’s vain enough to wear a lot of aftershave. That could be a social-class
indicator. Or maybe he wants to cover up some other smell he might’ve left. Garlic, cigars, fish, Whisky. We’ll have to see. Now, Amelia, listen carefully.”
“What?”
“I want you to be him.”
Oh. Psychoshit. Just what I need.
“I really don’t think we have time for this.”
“There’s never enough time in crime scene work,” Rhyme continued soothingly. “But that doesn’t stop us. Just get into his head. You’ve been thinking the way we think. I want you to think the way he does.”
“Well, how do I do that?”
“Use your imagination. That’s why God gave us one. Now, you’re him. You’ve got her cuffed and gagged. You take her into the room there. You cuff her to the pipe. You scare her. You’re enjoying this.”
“How do you know he’s enjoying it?”
“You’reenjoying it. Nothim . How do I know? Because nobody goes to this much trouble to do something they don’t enjoy. Now, you know your way around. You’ve been here before.”
“Why d’you think that?”
“You had to check it out earlier—to find a deserted place with a feeder pipe from the steam system. And to get the clues he left by the train tracks.”
Sachs was mesmerized by his fluid, low voice. She forgot completely that his body was destroyed. “Oh. Right.”
“You take the steam-pipe cover off. What are you thinking?”
“I don’t know. That I want to get it over with. Get out.”
But the words were hardly out of her mouth before she thought: Wrong. And she wasn’t surprised when she heard Rhyme’s tongue click in her headset. “Do you really?” he asked.
“No. I want to make it last.”
“Yes! I think that’s exactly what you want. You’re thinking about what the steam will do to her. What else do you feel?”
“I ...”
A thought formed in her mind, vague. She saw the woman struggling to free herself. Saw something else ... someoneelse. Him, she thought. Unsub 823. But what about him? She was close to understanding. What ...what? But suddenly the thought vanished. Gone.
“I don’t know,” she whispered.
 “Do you feel any urgency? Or are you pretty cool about what you’re doing?”
“I’m in a hurry. I have to leave. The cops could be here at any minute. But I still ...”
“What?”
“Shhhh,” she ordered, and scanned the room again, looking for whatever had put the seed of the vanished thought in her mind.
The room was swimming, a black, starry night. Swirls of darkness and distant, jaundiced lights. Lord, don’t let me faint!
Maybe he—
There! That’s it. Sachs’s eyes were following the steam pipe. She was looking at another access plate in a shadowy alcove of the room. It would have been a better hiding place for the girl—you couldn’t see it from the doorway if you were walking past—and the second plate had only four bolts on it, not eight, like the one he chose.
Why not that pipe?
Then she understood.
“He doesn’t want ...I don’t want to leave just yet because I want to keep an eye on her.”
“Why do you think that?” he inquired, echoing her own words just moments before.
“There’s another pipe I could’ve chained her to but I picked the one that was in the open.”
“So you could see her?”
“I think so.”
“Why?”
“Maybe to make sure she can’t get away. Maybe to make sure the gag’s tight. ... I don’t know.”
“Good, Amelia. But what does itmean? How can weuse that fact?”
Sachs looked around the room for the place where he’d have the best view of the girl without being seen. It turned out to be a shadowy spot between two large heating-oil tanks.
“Yes!” she said excitedly, looking at the floor. “He was here.” Forgetting the role-playing. “He swept up.”
She scanned the area with the bile glow of the PoliLight wand.
“No footprints,” she said, disappointed. But as she lifted the light to shut it off, a smudge glowed on one of the tanks.
 “I’ve got a print!” she announced.
“A print?”
“You get a better view of the girl if you lean forward and support yourself on a tank. That’s what he did, I’m sure. Only, it’s weird, Lincoln. It’s ... deformed. His hand.” She shivered looking at the monstrous palm.
“In the suitcase there’s an aerosol bottle labeled DFO. It’s a fluorescent stain. Spray that on the print, hit the PoliLight and shoot the image with the one-to-one Polaroid.”
She told him when she’d finished this and he said, “Now Dust-bust the floor between the tanks. If we’re lucky he scratched off a hair or chewed a fingernail.”
Myhabits, Sachs thought. It was one of the things that had finally ruined her modeling career—the bloody nail, the worried eyebrow. She’d tried and tried and tried to stop. Finally gave up, discouraged, bewildered that a tiny habit could change the direction of your life so dramatically.
“Bag the vacuum filter.”
“In paper?”
“Yes, paper. Now, the body, Amelia.”
“What?”
“Well, you’vegot to process the body.”
Her heart sank. Somebody else, please. Have somebody else do it. She said, “Not until the ME’s finished. That’s the rule.”
“No rules today, Amelia. We’re making up our own. The medical examiner’ll get her after us.” Sachs approached the woman.
“You know the routine?”
“Yes.” She stepped close to the destroyed body.
Then froze. Hands inches from the victim’s skin.
I can’t do it. She shuddered. Told herself to keep going. But she couldn’t; the muscles weren’t responding.
“Sachs? You there?”
She couldn’t answer.
I can’t do this. ... It was as simple as that. Impossible. I can’t . “Sachs?”
And then she looked into herself and, somehow, saw her father, in uniform, stooping low on the hot, pitted sidewalk of West Forty-second Street, sliding his arm around a scabby drunk to help him home. Then was seeing her Nick as he laughed and drank beer in a Bronx tavern with a hijacker who’d kill him in a second if he knew the young cop was working undercover. The two men in her life, doing what they had to do.
“Amelia?”
These two images bobbed in her thoughts, and why they calmed her, or where that calm came from, she couldn’t begin to guess. “I’m here,” she said to Lincoln Rhyme and went about her business as she’d been taught. Taking the nail scrapings, combing the hair—pubic and head. Telling Rhyme what she did as she did it.
Ignoring the dull orbs of eyes ...
Ignoring the crimson flesh.
Trying to ignore the smell.
“Get her clothing,” Rhyme said. “Cut off everything. Put a sheet of newsprint under them first to pick up any trace that falls off.”
“Should I check the pockets?”
“No, we’ll do that here. Wrap them up in the paper.”
Sachs cut the blouse and skirt off, the panties. She reached out for what she thought was the woman’s bra, dangling from her chest. It felt curious, disintegrating in her fingers. Then, like a slap she realized what she held and she gave a short scream. It wasn’t cloth, it was skin.
“Amelia? Are you all right?”
“Yes!” she gasped. “I’m fine.”
“Describe the restraints.”
“Duct tape for the gag,--two inches wide. Standard-issue cuffs for hands, clothesline for the feet.” “PoliLight her body. He might’ve touched her with his bare hands. Look for prints.”
She did. “Nothing.”
“Okay. Now cut the clothesline—but not through the knot. Bag it. In plastic.” Sachs did. Then Rhyme said, “We need the cuffs.”
“Okay. I’ve got a cuff key.”
“No, Amelia. Don’t open them.”
 “What?”
“The cuff lock mechanism is one of the best ways to pick up trace from the perp.”
“Well, how’m I supposed to get them off without a key?” She laughed.
“There’s a razor saw in the suitcase.”
“You want me to cut off the cuffs?”
There was a pause. Rhyme said, “No, not the cuffs, Amelia.”
“Well, whatdo you want me to ... Oh, you can’t be serious. Herhands?”
“You have to.” He was irritated at her reluctance.
Okay, that’s it. Sellitto and Polling ’ve picked a nutcase for a partner. Maybe their careers ’re tanking but I’m not going down with them.
“Forget it.”
“Amelia, it’s just another way to collect evidence.”
Why did he sound so reasonable? She thought desperately for excuses. “They’ll get blood all over them if I cut—”
“Her heart’s not beating. Besides,” he added like a TV chef, “the blood ’ll be cooked into a solid.”
The gorge rising again.
“Go on, Amelia. Go to the suitcase. Get the saw. In the lid.” He added a frosty, “Please.”
“Why’d you have me scrape under her nails? I could’ve just brought you back her hands!”
“Amelia, we need the cuffs. We have to open them here and we can’t wait for the ME. It has to be done.”
She walked back to the doorway. Unsnapped the thongs, lifted the wicked-looking saw from the case. She stared at the woman, frozen in her tortured pose in the center of the vile room.
“Amelia? Amelia?”
Outside, the sky was still clogged with stagnant, yellow air and the buildings nearby were covered with soot like charred bones. But Sachs had never been so glad to be out in the city air as now. The CU suitcase in one hand, the razor saw in the other, the headset dangling dead around her neck. Sachs ignored the huge crowd of cops and spectators staring at her and walked straight toward the station wagon.
As she passed Sellitto she handed him the saw without pausing, practically tossed it to him. “If he wants it done that badly tell him he can damn well walk down here and do it himself.”
“I’ve got myself into a situation here, sir.”
The man across the desk looked like a TV show’s idea of a big-city deputy police commissioner. Which happened to be his rank. White hair, a temperate jowl, gold-rimmed glasses, posture to die for.
“Now what’s the problem, officer?”
Dep Com Randolph C. Eckert looked down his long nose with a gaze that Sachs recognized immediately; his nod to equality was to be as stern with the female officers as with the male ones.
“I’ve got a complaint, sir,” she said stiffly. “You heard about that taxi kidnapping case?”
He nodded. “Ah, has that got the city in double dutch.”
She believed that was a schoolchild’s game of jump rope but wouldn’t presume to correct a deputy commissioner.
“That damn UN conference,” he continued, “and the whole world’s watching. It’s unfair. People don’t talk about crime in Washington. Or Detroit. Well, Detroit they do. Say, Chicago. Never. No, it’s New York that people thump on. Richmond, Virginia, had more murders per capita than we did last year. I looked it up. And I’d rather parachute unarmed into Central Harlem than drive windows-up through South East D.C. any day.”
 “Yes sir.”
“Understand they found that girl dead. It was on all the news. Those reporters.” “Downtown. Just now.”
“Now that’s a pity.”
“Yes sir.”
“They just killed her? Like that? No ransom demand or anything?”
“I didn’t hear about any ransom.”
“What’s this complaint?”
“I was first officer in a related homicide this morning.”
“You’re Patrol?” Eckert asked.
“I was Patrol. I was supposed to be transferring to Public Affairs today at noon. For a training session.” She lifted her hands, tipped with flesh-colored Band-Aids, and dropped them in her lap. “But they shanghaied me.”
“Who?”
“Detective Lon Sellitto, sir. And Captain Haumann. And Lincoln Rhyme.”
“Rhyme?”
“Yessir.”
“Not the fellow was in charge of IRD a few years ago?”
“Yessir. That’s him.”
“I thought he was dead.”
Egos like that will never die.
“Very much alive, sir.”
The dep com was looking out his window. “He’s not on the force anymore. What’s he doing involved in this?”
“Consultant, I guess. It’s Lon Sellitto’s case. Captain Polling’s overseeing it. I’ve been waiting for this reassignment for eight months. But they’ve got me working crime scene. I’ve neverdone crime scene. It doesn’t make any sense and frankly I resent being assigned to a job I’ve had no training for.”
“Crime scene?”
 “Rhyme ordered me to run the whole scene. By myself.”
Eckert didn’t understand this. The words weren’t registering. “Why is a civilian ordering uniformed
officers to do anything?”
“My point, sir.” She set the hook. “I mean, I’ll help up to a point. But I’m just not prepared to
dismember victims ...”
“What?”
She blinked as if surprised he hadn’t heard. She explained about the handcuffs.
“Lord in heaven, what the hell ’re they thinking of? Pardon my French. Don’t they know the whole country’s watching? It’s been on CNN all day, this kidnapping. Cutting off her hands? Say, you’re Herman Sachs’s daughter.”
“That’s right.”
“Good officer. Excellent officer. I gave him one of his commendations. The man was what a beat cop ought to be. Midtown South, right?”
“Hell’s Kitchen. My beat.”
My former beat.
“Herman Sachs probably prevented more crime than the entire detective division solves in a year. Just calming everything down, you know.”
“That was Pop. Sure.”
“Her hands?” Eckert snorted. “The girl’s family ’ll sue us. As soon as they find out about it. They sue us for everything. There’s a rapist suing us now ’cause he got shot in the leg coming at an officer with a knife. His lawyer’s got this theory he’s calling the ‘least deadly alternative.’ Instead of shooting, we’re supposed to taze them or use Mace. Or ask them politely, I don’t know. I better give the chief and the mayor a heads-up on this one. I’ll make some calls, officer.” He looked at a wall clock. It was a little after four. “Your watch over for the day?”
“I have to report back to Lincoln Rhyme’s house. That’s where we’re working out of.” She thought of the hacksaw. She said coolly, “His bedroom really. That’s our CP.”
“A civilian’s bedroom is your command post?”