“I’d appreciate anything you can do, sir. I’ve waited a long time for that transfer.” “Cut her hands off. My good Lord.”
She stood and walked to the door and out into one of the corridors that would soon be her new assignment. The feeling of relief took only a little longer to arrive than she’d expected.
He stood at the bottle-glass window, watching a pack of wild dogs prowl though the lot across the street.
He was on the first floor of this old building, a marble-clad Federal dating to the early 1800s. Surrounded by vacant lots and tenements—some abandoned, some occupied by paying tenants though most by squatters—this old mansion had been empty for years.
The bone collector took the piece of emery paper in his hand once more and continued to rub. He looked down at his handiwork. Then out the window again.
His hands, in their circular motion, precise. The tiny scrap of sandpaper whispering, shhhhh , shhhhh ... Like a mother hushing her child.
A decade ago, the days of promise in New York, some crazy artist had moved in here. He’d filled the dank, two-story place with broken and rusting antiques. Wrought-iron grilles, hunks of crown molding and framed squares of spidered stained glass, scabby columns. Some of the artist’s work remained on the walls. Frescoes on the old plaster: murals, never completed, of workers, children, angst-ridden lovers. Round, emotionless faces—the man’s motif—stared blankly, as if the souls had been nipped out of their smooth bodies.
The painter was never very successful, even after the most ironclad of marketing ideas—his own suicide—and the bank foreclosed on the building several years ago.
Shhhhh. ...
The bone collector had stumbled across the place last year and he’d known immediately that this was home. The desolation of the neighborhood was certainly important to him—it was obviously practical. But there was another appeal, more personal: the lot across the street. During some excavation several years ago a backhoe had unearthed a load of human bones. It turned out this had been one of the city’s old cemeteries. Newspaper articles about it suggested the graves might contain the remains not only of Federal and Colonial New Yorkers but Manate and Lenape Indians as well.
He now set aside what he’d been smoothing with the emery paper—a carpal, the delicate palm bone—and picked up the wrist, which he’d carefully detached from the radius and ulna last night just before leaving for Kennedy Airport to collect the first victims. It had been drying for over a week and most of the flesh was gone but it still took some effort to separate the elaborate cluster of bones. They snapped apart with faint plops, like fish breaking the surface of a lake.
Oh, the constables, they were a lot better than he’d anticipated. He’d been watching them search along Pearl Street, wondering if they’d ever figure out where he’d left the woman from the airport. Astonished when they suddenly ran toward the right building. He’d guessed it would take two or three victims until they got a feel for the clues. They hadn’t saved her of course. But they might have. A minute or two earlier would have made all the difference.
As with so much in life.
The navicular, the lunate, the hamate, the capitate ... the bones, intertwined like a Greek puzzle ring, came apart under his strong fingers. He picked bits of flesh and tendon off them. He selected the greater multangulum—at the base of where the thumb had once been—and began to sand once more.
Shhhhh, shhhhhhh.
The bone collector squinted as he looked outside and imagined he saw a man standing beside one of the old graves. Itmust have been his imagination because the man wore a bowler hat and was dressed in mustard-colored gabardine. He rested some dark roses beside the tombstone and then turned away from it, dodging the horses and carriages on his way to the elegantly arched bridge over the Collect Pond outlet at Canal Street. Who’d he been visiting? Parents? A brother? Family who’d died of consumption or in one of the terrible influenza epidemics that’d been ravaging the city recently—
Recently?
No, not recently of course. A hundred years ago—that’swhat he meant.
He squinted and looked again. No sign of the carriages or the horses. Or the man with the bowler hat. Though they’d seemed as real as flesh and blood.
However realthey are.
Shhhhh,shhhhhh .
It was intruding again, the past. He was seeing things that’d happenedbefore , that had happenedthen , as if they were now. He could control it. Heknew he could.
But as he gazed out the window he realized that of course there was no before or after. Not for him. He drifted back and forth through time, a day, five years, a hundred years or two, like a dried leaf on a windy day.
He looked at his watch. It was time to leave.
Setting the bone on the mantel, he washed his hands carefully—like a surgeon. Then for five minutes he ran a pet-hair roller over his clothes to pick up any bone dust or dirt or body hairs that might lead the constables to him.
He walked into the carriage house past the half-finished painting of a moon-faced butcher in a bloody white apron. The bone collector started to get into the taxi but then changed his mind. Unpredictability is the best defense. This time he’d take the carriage ... thesedan , the Ford. He started it, he drove into the street, closed and locked the garage door behind him.
No before or after ...
As he passed the cemetery the pack of dogs glanced up at the Ford then returned to scuffling through the brush, looking for rats and nosing madly for water in the unbearable heat.
No then or now ...
He took the ski mask and gloves from his pocket, set them on the seat beside him as he sped out of the old neighborhood. The bone collector was going hunting.
Something had changed about the roombut she couldn’t quite decide what.
Lincoln Rhyme saw it in her eyes.
“We missed you, Amelia,” he said coyly. “Errands?”
She looked away from him. “Apparently nobody’d told my new commander I wouldn’t be showing up for work today. I thought somebody ought to.”
“Ah, yes.”
She was gazing at the wall, slowly figuring it out. In addition to the basic instruments that Mel Cooper had brought with him, there was now a scanning electron microscope fitted with the X-ray unit, notation and hot-stage ’scope setups for testing glass, a comparison microscope, a density-gradient tube for soil testing and a hundred beakers, jars and bottles of chemicals.
And in the middle of the room, Cooper’s pride—the computerized gas Chromatograph and mass spectrometer. Along with another computer, on-line with Cooper’s own terminal at the IRD lab.
Sachs stepped over the thick cables snaking downstairs—house current worked, yes, but the amperage was too taxed for the bedroom outlets alone. And in that slight sidestep, an elegant, practiced maneuver, Rhyme observed how truly beautiful she was. Certainly the most beautiful woman he’d ever seen in the police department ranks.
For a brief instant he found her immeasurably appealing. People said that sex was all in the mind and Rhyme knew that this was true. Cutting the cord didn’t stop the urge. He remembered, still with a faint crunch of horror, a night six months after the accident. He and Blaine had tried. Just to see what happened, they’d disclaimed, trying to be casual. No big deal.
But ithad been a big deal. Sex is a messy business to start with and when you add catheters and bags to the equation you need a lot of stamina and humor and a better foundation than they’d had. Mostly, though, what killed the moment, and killed it fast, was her face. He saw in Elaine Chapman Rhyme’s tough, game smile that she was doing it from pity and that stabbed him in the heart. He filed for divorce two weeks later. Elaine had protested but she signed the papers on the first go-round.
Sellitto and Banks had returned and were organizing the evidence Sachs had collected. She looked on, mildly interested.
Rhyme said to her, “The Latents Unit only found eight other recent partials and they belong to the two maintenance men in the building.”
“Oh.”
He nodded broadly. “Onlyeight!”
“He’s complimenting you,” Thom explained. “Enjoy it. That’s the most you’ll ever get out of him.” “No translations needed, please and thank you, Thom.”
She responded, “I’m happy I could help.” Pleasant as could be.
Well, what wasthis? Rhyme had fully expected her to storm into his room and fling the evidence bags onto his bed. Maybe the saw itself or even the plastic bag containing the vic’s severed hands. He’d been looking forward to a real knock-down, drag-out; people rarely take the gloves off when they fight with a crip. He’d been thinking of that look in her eyes when she’d met him, perhaps evidence of some ambiguous kinship between them.
But no, he saw now he was wrong. Amelia Sachs was like everybody else—patting him on the head and looking for the nearest exit.
With a snap, his heart turned to ice. When he spoke it was to a cobweb high on the far wall. “We’ve been talking about the deadline for the next victim, officer. There doesn’t seem to be specific time.”
“What we think,” Sellitto continued, “whatever this prick’s got planned for the next one is something ongoing. He doesn’t know exactly when the time of death will be. Lincoln thought maybe he’s buried some poor SOB someplace where there’s not much air.”
Sachs’s eye narrowed slightly at this. Rhyme noticed it. Burial alive. If you’ve got to have a phobia, that’s as good as any.
They were interrupted by two men in gray suits who climbed the stairs and walked into the bedroom as if they lived here.
“We knocked,” one of them said. “We rang the bell,” said the other. “No answer.”
They were in their forties, one taller than the other but both with the same sandy-colored hair. They bore identical smiles and before the Brooklyn drawl destroyed the image Rhyme had thought: Hayseed farm boys. One had an honest-to-God dusting of freckles along the bridge of his pale nose.
“Gentlemen.”
Sellitto introduced the Hardy Boys: Detectives Bedding and Saul, the spadework team. Their skill was canvassing—interviewing people who live near a crime scene for wits and leads. It was a fine art but one that Rhyme had never learned, had no desire to. He was content to unearth hard facts and hand them off to officers like these, who, armed with the data, became living lie detectors who could shred perps’ best cover stories. Neither of them seemed to think it was the least bit weird to be reporting to a bedridden civilian.
Saul, the taller of them, the frecklee, said, “We’ve found thirty-six—” “-eight, if you count a couple of crack-heads. Which he doesn’t. I do.” “—subjects. Interviewed all of them. Haven’t had much luck.”
“Most of ’em blind, deaf, amnesiacs. You know, the usual.”
“No sign of the taxi. Combed the West Side. Zero. Zip.”
Bedding: “But tell them the good news.”
“We found a wit.”
“A witness?” Banks asked eagerly. “Fan-tastic.”
Rhyme, considerably less enthusiastic, said, “Go on.”
“ ’Round the TOD this morning at the train tracks.”
“He saw a man walk down Eleventh Avenue, turn—”
“ ‘Suddenly,’ he said,” added no-freckle Bedding.
“—and go through an alley that led to the train underpass. He just stood there for a while—”
“Looking down.”
Rhyme was troubled by this. “That doesn’t sound like our boy. He’s too smart to risk being seen like that.”
“But—” Saul continued, raising a finger and glancing at his partner.
“There was only one window in the whole ’hood you could see the place from.”
“Which is where our wit happened to be standing.”
“Up early, bless his heart.”
Before he remembered he was angry with her Rhyme asked, “Well, Amelia, how’s it feel?”
“I’m sorry?” Her attention returned from the window.
“To be right,” Rhyme said. “You pegged Eleventh Avenue. Not Thirty-seventh.”
She didn’t know how to respond but Rhyme turned immediately back to the twins. “Description?” “Our wit couldn’t say much.”
“Was on the sauce. Already.”
“He said it was a smallish guy. No hair color. Race—”
“Probably white.”
“Wearing?” Rhyme asked.
“Something dark. Best he could say.”
“And doing what?” Sellitto asked.
 “I quote. ‘He just like stood there, looking down. I thought he gonna jump. You know, in front of a train. Looked at his watch a couple times.’ ”
“And then finally left. Said he kept looking around. Like he didn’t want to be seen.”
What had he been doing? Rhyme wondered. Watching the victim die? Or was this before he planted the body, checking to see if the roadbed was deserted?
Sellitto asked, “Walked or drove?”
“Walked. We checked every parking lot—”
“And garage.”
“—in the neighborhood. But that’s near the convention center so you got parking coming out your ears. There’re so many lots the attendants stand in the street with orange flags and wave cars in.”
“And ’causa the expo half of them were full by seven. We got a list of about nine hundred tags.”
Sellitto shook his head. “Follow up on it—”
“It’s delegated,” said Bedding.
“—but I betcha this’s one unsub who ain’t putting cars in lots,” the detective continued. “Or getting parking tickets.”
Rhyme nodded his agreement and asked, “The building at Pearl Street?”
One, or both, of the twins said, “That’s next on our list. We’re on our way.”
Rhyme caught Sachs checking her watch, which sat on her white wrist near her ruddy fingers. He instructed Thom to add these new characteristics of the unsub to the profile chart.
“You want to interview that guy?” Banks asked. “The one by the railroad?”
“No. I don’t trust witnesses,” Rhyme said bombastically. “I want to get back to work.” He glanced at Mel Cooper. “Hairs, blood, bone, and a sliver of wood. The bone first,” Rhyme instructed.
Morgen ...
Young Monelle Gerger opened her eyes and slowly sat up in the sagging bed. In her two years in east Greenwich Village she’d never gotten used to morning.
Her round, twenty-one-year-old body eased forward and she got a blast of unrelenting August sunlight in her bleary eyes.“Mein Gott ...”
She’d left the club at five, home at six, made love with Brian until seven ... What time was it now?
Early morning, she was sure.
She squinted at the clock. Oh. Four-thirty in the afternoon.
Not sofrüh morgens after all.
Coffee or laundry?
It was around this time of day that she’d wander over to Dojo’s for a veggie-burger breakfast and three cups of their tough coffee. There she’d meet people she knew, clubbies like herself—downtown people.
But she’d let a lot of things go lately, the domestic things. And so now she pulled on two baggy T-shirts to hide her chubby figure and jeans, hung five or six chains around her neck and grabbed the laundry basket, tossed the Wisk onto it.
Monelle undid the three dead bolts barring the door. She hefted the laundry basket and walked down the dark staircase of the residence hall. At the basement level she paused.
Irgendwas stimmt hier nicht.
Feeling uneasy, Monelle looked around the deserted stairway, the murky corridors. What’s different?
The light, that’s it! The bulbs in the hall’re burned out. No—she looked closely—they weremissing . Fucking kids’ll steal anything. She’d moved in here, the Deutsche Haus—because it was supposedly a haven for German artists and musicians. It turned out to be just another filthy, way-overpriced East Village walkup, like all the other tenements around here. The only difference was that she could bitch to the manager in her native tongue.
She continued through the basement door into the incinerator room, which was so dark she had to grope her way along the wall to make sure she didn’t trip over the junk on the floor.
Pushing open the door, she stepped into the corridor that led to the laundry room.
A shuffling. A skitter.
She turned quickly and saw nothing but motionless shadows. All she heard was the sound of traffic, the groans of an old, old building.
Through the dimness. Past stacks of boxes and discarded chairs and tables. Under wires caked with greasy dust. Monelle continued toward the laundry room. No bulbs here either. She was uneasy, recalling something that hadn’t occurred to her for years. Walking with her father down a narrow alley off Lange Strasse, near the Obermain Brücke, on their way to the zoo. She must have been five or six. Her father had suddenly gripped her by the shoulder and pointed to the bridge and told her matter-of-factly that a hungry troll lived underneath it. When they crossed it on their way home, he warned, they’d have to walk quickly. She now felt a ripple of panic rise up her spine to her crew-cut blond hair.
Stupid. Trolls ...
She continued down the dank corridor, listening to the humming of some electrical equipment. Far off she heard a song by the feuding brothers in Oasis.
The laundry room was dark.
Well, ifthose bulbs were gone, that was it. She’d go upstairs, and pound on Herr Neischen’s door until he came running. She’d given him hell for the broken latches on the front and back doors and for the beer-guzzling kids he never kicked off the front stoop. She’d give him hell for the missing bulbs too.
She reached inside and flicked the switch.
Brilliant white light. Three large bulbs glowed like suns, revealing a room that was filthy but empty. Monelle strode up to the bank of four machines and dumped the whites in one, the colors in the next. She counted out quarters, dropped them into slots and shoved the levers forward.
Nothing.
Monelle jiggled the lever. Then hit the machine itself. No response. “Shit. Thisgottverdammte building.”
Then she saw the power cord. Some idiot had unplugged the machines. She knew who. Neischen had a twelve-year-old son who was responsible for most of the carnage around the building. When she’d complained about something last year the little shit’d tried to kick her.
She picked up the cord and crouched, reaching behind the machine to find the outlet. She plugged it in. And felt the man’s breath on her neck.
“Nein!”
He was sandwiched between the wall and the back of the washer. Barking a fast scream, she caught a glimpse of ski mask and dark clothes then his hand clamped down on her arm like an animal’s jaws. She was off balance and he easily jerked her forward. She tumbled to the floor, hitting her face on the rough concrete, and swallowed the scream forming in her throat.
He was on her in an instant, pinning her arms to the concrete, slapping a piece of thick gray tape over her mouth.
Hilfe!
Nein, bitte nicht.
Bitte nicht.
He wasn’t large but he was strong. He easily rolled her over onto her stomach and she heard the ratcheting of the handcuffs closing on her wrists.
Then he stood up. For a long moment, no sound but the drip of water, the rasp of Monelle’s breath, the click of a small motor somewhere in the basement.
Waiting for the hands to touch her body, to tear off her clothes. She heard him walk to the doorway to make sure they were alone.
Oh, he had complete privacy, she knew, furious with herself; she was one of the few residents who used the laundry room. Most of them avoided it because it was so deserted, so close to the back doors and windows, so far away from help.
He returned and rolled her over onto her back. Whispered something she couldn’t make out. Then: “Hanna.”
Hanna?It’s a mistake! He thinks I’m somebody else. She shook her head broadly, trying to make him understand this.
But then, looking at his eyes, she stopped. Even though he wore a ski mask, it was clear that something was wrong. He was upset. He scanned her body, shaking his head. He closed his gloved fingers around her big arms. Squeezed her thick shoulders, grabbed a pinch of fat. She shivered in pain.
That’s what she saw: disappointment. He’d caught her and now he wasn’t sure he wanted her after all.
He reached into his pocket and slowly withdrew his hand. The click of the knife opening was like an electric shock. It started a jag of sobbing.
Nein, nein, nein!
A hiss of breath escaped from his teeth like wind through winter trees. He crouched over her, debating.
“Hanna,” he whispered. “What am I going to do?”
Then, suddenly, he made a decision. He put the knife away and yanked her to her feet then led her out to the corridor and through the rear door—the one with the broken lock she’d been hounding Herr Neischen for weeks to fix.
A criminalist is a renaissance man.
He’s got to know botany, geology, ballistics, medicine, chemistry, literature, engineering. If he knows facts—that ash with a high strontium content probably came from a highway flare, thatfaca is Portuguese for “knife,” that Ethiopian diners use no utensils and eat with their right hands exclusively, that a slug with five land-and-groove rifling marks, right twist, could not have been fired by a Colt pistol—if he knows these things he may just make the connection that places an unsub at the crime scene.
One subject all criminalists know is anatomy. And this was certainly a specialty of Lincoln Rhyme’s, for he had spent the past three and a half years enmeshed in the quirky logic of bone and nerve.
He now glanced at the evidence bag from the steam room, dangling in Jerry Banks’s hand, and announced, “Leg bone. Not human. So it’s not from the next vic.”
It was a ring of bone about two inches around, sawn through evenly. There was blood in the tracks left by the saw blade.