“Yes,” I say, trying to maintain my pleasant smile. “I am. Can I help you with something?”
Please don’t ask for an autograph. It’s not worth anything anymore. You know how much an
autograph from me gets on eBay these days, lady? A buck. If you’re lucky. I’m so washed
up, I’ll be singing about sippy cups soon. If I’m lucky.
“I’m sorry to bother you,” Mom Haircut goes on. “But I think you worked with my husband.
Well, ex-husband, I should say. Owen Veatch?”
I blink at her. Oh my God. Rag Doll Sweatshirt Mom Haircut is the former Mrs. Veatch!
“Please hold.” Felicia puts down the phone and says, “Heather, sorry to interrupt, but Gavin
McGoren is on the phone for you.”
“Tell Gavin I’ll call him back,” I say. I reach out and take Mrs. Veatch’s right hand. It’s
rough and scratchy in mine, and I remember Owen mentioning once that his ex-wife was a
potter, and “arty.” “Mrs. Veatch…I am so, so sorry about your husband. Ex-husband, I
mean.”
“Oh.” Mrs. Veatch smiles in a sad way. “Please. Call me Pam. It hasn’t been Mrs. Veatch in
quite some time. In fact, ever. That was always Owen’s mother to me.”
“Pam, then,” I say. “Sorry. My mistake. What can I do for you, Pam?”
“Heather,” Felicia says. “Gavin says you can’t call him back, because he’s not home right
now.”
“Don’t be ridiculous,” I say. “Of course I can call him back. Just take down the number
where he is.”
“No,” Felicia says. “Because he says where he is, which is the Rock Ridge jail, he only gets
one phone call.”
As I swing my head around to stare at her, the front door opens, and Tom comes in, looking
as shocked as I feel.
“You’re never going to believe this,” he announces, to the lobby in general. “But that gun
they found in that dude’s murse? It was a match for the one that plowed through Owen’s
brain.”
13
I’m pushin’ the stroller
Can’t you see?
Or is my baby
The one pushin’ me?
  
“Baby Time”
Written by Heather Wells
Tom has apologized a million times for the plow remark.
“Honest,” he keeps saying. “If I’d known she was his ex-wife…”
“It’s okay.” I have more important things to worry about than Tom’s faux pas. Like the fact
that Gavin is apparently in jail.
“What’s she even doing here?” Tom wants to know. “Why didn’t she have the cab from the
airport drop her at Wasser Hall, like everyone else from Owen’s family? What, she didn’t get
the memo?”
“There was some business of Owen’s she needed to follow up on,” I say. We’re sitting in my
office—well, Tom in his old office (now the former site of a grisly murder…thank God the
housekeeping staff didn’t go on strike until AFTER they’d cleaned up the crime scene), and
I’ve just returned, panting, to my desk in the outer office—just like old times.
Except for the whole Tom-got-a-promotion-and-is-just-filling-in-while-the-Housing-Office-
searches-for-a-replacement-for-his-replacement-who-happens-to-have-gotten-shot-in-the-
head-yesterday thing.
I don’t tell him the rest of it—like just how much Mrs. Veatch—Pam, I mean—didn’t know
about her ex’s new life in the city. Or how much it turned out we didn’t know about Dr.
Veatch. Because it’s still weirding me out a little.
Instead, I sit down and start clacking at my keyboard, Googling Rock Ridge Police
Department. Come on, come on…I know the town is small, but they have to have cops, right?
Bingo.
Pam had just assumed that since Owen worked in a residence hall, he naturally lived in it,
too, since most residence hall director positions are live-in.
I’d explained to her that her ex had actually been much more than just a hall director—that as
part of his compensation package for his position, ombudsman to the president’s office, he’d
gotten a swank, rent-free apartment in a neighboring building in which many of the college’s
administrators, including the president himself, lived.
“So is it far?” Pam had wanted to know.
I had blinked at her. There’d been a lot of ruckus at the desk just then, what with Brian and
Mr. Rosetti just leaving, and Tom having dropped his bomb about Sebastian’s gun having
been a match for the one that killed Owen, and Felicia still waving the phone with Gavin
waiting to have me take his call, and all.
“Is what far?” I’d asked intelligently.
  
“The building Owen lived in?” Pam had asked.
“Uh,” I’d said. All I could think was Gavin’s in jail? In Rock Ridge? The chic, exclusive
bedroom community of New York, which can’t have more than five thousand people in it?
Does it even have a jail? Has the entire world gone insane?
“Seriously,” Tom had chosen that moment to start in, for the first of what would prove to be
the many apologies he would give over the course of the next half-hour. “I am so, so sorry,
ma’am. I didn’t have the slightest idea—”
“It’s all right,” she’d said, with the briefest of smiles at him. “How could you know?” To me,
she’d asked, “Well? Is it?”
“It’s a block away,” I’d replied.
She’d looked relieved. “So I can walk to it? I’m sorry to be such a pain…it’s just I’ve walked
so much today—”
“Oh.” She wanted to see his apartment? Why? “It’s just down the block…”
“I wonder if you can help me, then, Heather…” For the first time, I noticed Pam was carting
a wheelie suitcase behind her, and had one of those quilted overnight bags in a red and white
floral pattern slung over one shoulder. “Surely you would know.” Her wide, friendly face—
not pretty, exactly, and completely makeup free, but certainly pleasant-looking—was creased
with concern. “Since you worked with Owen…Has anyone been giving Garfield his pills?”
“Uh…” I’d exchanged puzzled looks with Tom. “Who, ma’am?”
“Garfield.” Dr. Veatch’s ex had looked at us like we were morons. “Owen’s cat.”
Owen had a cat? Owen owned—had made himself responsible for—another life? Granted of
the four-legged variety—but still. It was true, of course, that Owen had been fond of the
cartoon Garfield, to a degree none of the rest of us could understand.
But that he’d kept a cat, in his apartment? Owen, the driest, least warm person I had ever met,
had owned a PET?
I’d had no idea.
It changed my perception of Owen. I’ll admit it. It sounds stupid, but it’s true: It made me
like him more.
Well, okay: It made me like him, at all.
I guess my surprise must have shown on my face, since Pam, looking horrified, had cried,
“You mean the poor thing hasn’t had any food or water since yesterday? He’s got thyroid
disease! He needs a pill daily!”
I’d walked her to Dr. Veatch’s apartment myself while Tom scooted back to our office to
hold down the fort. Then I’d waited with her for the building super, gone with her to the
  
apartment, helped her with the key (the locks in these old buildings can be tricky), and waited
tensely while she’d called, “Garfield! Garfield? Here, puss, puss.”
The cat had been fine, of course. A big, menacing orange thing, just like its namesake, it had
needed only a can (well, okay, two) of food, some water, and a tiny white pill—kept in a
prescription bottle Pam seemed to have no trouble finding, in a decorative blue and white
sugar bowl that matched all the other china in the hutch in Owen’s dining room cabinet—
before it was good as new, purring and contented in Pam’s lap.
Not knowing what else to do, I’d left her there. The cat seemed to know her, and, well,
whatever, it wasn’t like Dr. Veatch needed the place anymore. Obviously the president’s
office would reassign the apartment to someone in good time. But Pam clearly loved the cat,
and somebody needed to take care of it. So it seemed logical to leave her there with it.
And it wasn’t like Simon Hague was going to let her bring it into Wasser Hall. I knew Simon
and his pet unfriendly policies (I myself have been known to turn a blind eye to the
occasional kitten or iguana, so long as all room and suitemates were amenable to the
situation, and I didn’t get a call from a parent complaining later on). I wouldn’t have put it
past Simon to have refused Pam entrance into his building if she’d been carting Garfield
along with her, pet of recently murdered former staff member or no.
No, Pam and Owen’s cat were fine as—and where—they were.
Though I figured a well-placed call to Detective Canavan, just to make sure his detectives
were finished going through Owen’s personal things, wouldn’t hurt.
By the time I got back to Fischer Hall, left the message with Detective Canavan, and
remembered Gavin, he’d hung up.
But it isn’t, I find, when I finally get through to the Rock Ridge Police Department, like
there’s more than one prisoner at the jail there. Or more than one police officer I have to get
through in order to speak to the chief, either. Henry T. O’Malley, the chief of police himself,
in fact, answers on the first ring.
“Is this the Heather Wells?” he wants to know. “The same one my kid made me listen to over
and over about ten years ago, until I thought I would go mental and shoot myself under the
chin with my own weapon?”
I ignore the question and instead ask one of my own. “May I inquire as to why you are
holding Gavin McGoren in your town’s jail, sir?”
“‘Every time I see you, I get a Sugar Rush,’” he sings. Not badly, for a nonprofessional.
“‘You’re like candy. You give me a Sugar Rush.’”
“Whatever he did,” I say, “I’m sure he didn’t mean it. He just gets a little overexcited
sometimes. He’s only twenty-one.”
“Trespassing on private property,” Chief O’Malley reads aloud from what I assume is
Gavin’s arrest report. “Breaking and entering…although between you and me, that one’ll
probably be dropped. It’s not breaking if someone opens the window for you, and it’s not
  
entering if you’re invited, whatever the girl’s father wants to believe. Oh, and public
urination. He’s going to have a hard time getting out of that one. Unzipped right in front of
me—”
Unbelievably, in the background, I can hear Gavin yelling, “I told you I had to go!”
“You simmer down back there,” the chief yells back, seemingly over his shoulder. I have to
hold the phone away from my face in order to keep my eardrum from being broken. “You’re
just lucky it was me who answered the call and not one of the Staties, or you’d be sitting over
in the Westchester lockup. You think they’d have brought you coffee and waffles for
breakfast this morning, huh? Do you? With real fresh-squeezed orange juice?”
In the background, I hear Gavin grudgingly admit, “No.”
“Then remember yourself,” Chief O’Malley advises him. “Now,” he says, into the phone.
“Where were we? Oh, yes. ‘Sugar Rush. Don’t tell me stay on my diet. You have simply got
to try it.’ The words are forever imprinted in my memory. My daughter sang them morning,
noon, and night. For two years.”
“Sorry about that,” I say. Seriously, why do I always get the sarcastic and jaded law
enforcement officers, and never the sweet, enthusiastic ones? Are there any sweet,
enthusiastic ones? “So how much is his bail?”
“Let me see,” Chief O’Malley says, shuffling through the papers on his desk, while in the
background, I could hear Gavin yelling, “Can I talk to her, please? You said I get one phone
call. Well, I never got my phone call, because I never actually got to talk to her. So could I
please talk to her? Could you let me out of here so I could talk to her, please? Please?”
“Mr. McGoren is being held on five thousand dollars bail,” Chief O’Malley says, finally, in
response to my question.
“Five thousand dollars?” My voice rises to such a squeak that I see Tom’s head appear
around the doorway, his eyebrows raised questioningly. “For trespassing? And public
urination?”
“And breaking and entering,” Chief O’Malley reminds me.
“You said those charges would be dropped!”
“But they haven’t yet.”
“That…that…” I can’t breathe. “That’s highway robbery!”
“We’re a simple little town, Ms. Wells,” Chief O’Malley says. “We don’t see much crime.
When we do, we hit it. Hard. We have to maintain certain standards to ensure that we stay a
simple little town.”
“I suggested Mr. McGoren phone his parents,” Chief O’Malley says. “But for reasons he is
reluctant to share with me, he preferred to call you.”
“Just let me TALK to her!” Gavin shouts, in the background.
“Was it Jamie Price’s parents?” I ask. “Who called you? It was her house you found him in?”
“I am not at liberty to discuss the details of Mr. McGoren’s case with you at this time,” Chief
O’Malley says. “But yes. And,” he goes on, a bit primly, “I would like to add that he was not
fully clothed at the time of my apprehending him, when he was, in fact, crawling out of the
younger Ms. Price’s bedroom window. And I don’t mean when he unzipped to relieve
himself, either. That was later.”
“Hey!” I hear Gavin protest.
“Oh God.” I drop my head to my desk. I do not need this. On today of all days. I can hear, off
in the distance, the protesters outside chanting, “What do we want? Health benefits for all!
When do we want them? Now!”
“Tell him I’ll be there as soon as I can,” I say.
“Take your time,” Chief O’Malley says cheerfully. “I’m enjoying the company. It’s not often
I get anyone sober in here, much less college-educated. For lunch I’m thinking about picking
up chicken wings.” Then he holds the phone away from his mouth for a moment and calls to
Gavin, “Hey, kid. You’re not a vegetarian, are you?”
“Heather!” I hear Gavin scream. “I have to tell you something! It wasn’t Sebastian! It
wasn’t—”
Then the line goes dead. Chief O’Malley, having evidently reached the end of his patience,
has hung up.
When I raise my head again, Tom is standing by my desk, looking down at me worriedly.
“Wait…” he says. “Who was that you were just talking about? Gavin? Or Sebastian
Blumenthal?”
“Gavin,” I say, to my keyboard.
“He’s in jail, too? Like…literally?”
“Like, literally. Tom. I gotta go up there.”
“Where?” Tom looks confused. “Owen’s apartment? You were just there. How much hand-
holding does that lady need? I mean, they were divorced, right? Maybe you should send
Gillian up there for a little grief counseling. The two of them look like they’d get along great,
anyway—”
“No, I mean, I have to go to Westchester,” I say. I’m already rolling my chair back and rising
from my desk. “I have to talk to Gavin.”
  
“Right now?” Tom looks shocked. And a little scared. “You’re gonna leave me alone? With
all that going on outside?” He casts a nervous look at the window—now firmly shut, the
blinds drawn—through which Dr. Veatch had been shot. “And that?”
“You’ll be all right,” I tell him. “You have the student workers. Both desks are fully
scheduled. All of Dr. Veatch’s appointments are canceled. For God’s sake, Tom, you’ve been
handling the frats. They’re way harder than this place.”
“Yeah,” Tom says nervously. “But nobody gets murdered there.”
“I’ll be back as soon as I can,” I say. “I’ll probably only be gone a few hours. You can reach
me on my cell if you need me. If anyone asks where I am, tell them I had a family
emergency. Understand? Don’t tell anyone about Gavin. It’s really important.”
“Okay.” Tom looks unhappy.
“I mean it, Tom.”
“Okay!”
Satisfied, I turn to go—and nearly careen with my best friend (and former backup dancer,
now wife of rock legend Frank Robillard) Patty, who is clutching a half-dozen bridal
magazines to her ever-so-slightly burgeoning belly. But she has an excuse—and it’s not
grande café mochas with whipped cream, but being the four months’ pregnant mom of a
three-year-old.
“Who told you?” I demand, staring at the glossy copy of Elegant Bride that’s staring up at
me.
Patty flicks an accusing look at Tom, who shrugs and says, “Oh yeah, I forgot to tell you,
Heather. Patty called while you were next door with Owen’s ex. Oooh, you got the May
issue! My God, it weighs as much as a Thanksgiving turkey.”
“I can’t believe you told him first and not me.” Patty, who even when not pregnant has a
tendency to glow in an irritatingly radiant manner, lowers herself with a dancer’s grace into
the blue vinyl chair beside my desk and picks up one of the magazines. “I think she should go
with pure white. Ivory will make her look sallow. What do you think, Tom?”
“I was thinking just the opposite,” Tom says, settling down at my desk. “A cream will bring
out the rosy tones in her skin.”
“Do you know there’s a gigantic rat across the street from your building, with all sorts of
people parading around it?” Patty asks. “And when were you going to tell me about your boss
being shot in the head yesterday, Heather? This is ridiculous. How long do you plan on
working in this death trap? You can’t have lost another boss.”
“I was telling her to wait until she’s had eight,” Tom says, with a laugh, “then quit, and say—
”
“—eight is enough!” they both finish.
  
“Hold that thought,” I say, “I’ll be right back.”
And I dart from the office before either of them can say another word, or look up from the
glossy photo they are admiring, of a Jackie O style wedding gown that in a million, trillion
years would never look good on a girl like me.
14
You are my little sippy cup
If I drop you and I pick you up
You won’t have spilled
Then I can drink you up
“Stab Me in the Eyeballs”
Written by Heather Wells
“I don’t get it,” I say, as we cruise up the Hutchinson River Parkway.
“What don’t you get?” Cooper wants to know.
Other cars are passing us at an alarming rate, some of the drivers giving us dirty looks—and
even dirtier gestures—as they go by.
But Cooper doesn’t seem to mind. He is being supremely cautious with his ’74 2002 BMW,
handling it as softly as a baby—which is a good thing, because a jolt—or anything over fifty-
five miles per hour—could shake the ancient four-door apart.
I feel lucky to have caught him after a recent cleaning binge. My feet, for once, aren’t sitting
in three inches of fast-food detritus, but on the actual floor mats the car came with.
“When Sarah and Gavin asked you yesterday if you’d drive them to Rock Ridge, you said no.
But when I told you I needed to get up there, you couldn’t grab the keys fast enough.” I study
his profile curiously. “What gives?”
“Do you think there’s a distance I wouldn’t go,” Cooper asks, shifting, “for a chance to see
that kid in the slammer?”
I roll my eyes. Of course the reason he’d dived for the keys the minute I’d walked into his
office and said, “I need a ride to Westchester. Gavin’s in jail,” had been because he’d wanted
to laugh at Gavin for getting caught with his pants down, not because he knows I entertain
big-sisterly feelings for Gavin and had wanted to help get him out of the jam he’s currently
in.
Men.
  
On the other hand…men. I try not to be overly conscious of the sexiness of the sleek dark
hairs on the back of the hand on the gearshift next to me. What is wrong with me, anyway? I
already have a boyfriend. A boyfriend who wants to marry me. I’m pretty sure.
It’s just that the backs of Tad’s hands aren’t hairy. Not that he doesn’t have hair on them. It’s
just that he’s blond, so you can’t really see them.
Not that hairy hands or lack thereof necessarily constitute sexiness or anything. There just
seems to be something particularly sexy—even predatory, in a sort of thrillingly masculine
way—about Cooper’s. It’s hard not to think about how those hands would feel on my naked
body. All over my naked body.
“Why are you staring at my fingers?” Cooper wants to know.
Oh God.
“I just d-don’t,” I stammer, tearing my gaze from his hand. “D-don’t understand how
Sebastian could have shot Owen. I mean, I saw Sebastian right after the murder. Like a
couple hours after. And he was joking around. There’s no way he could have done it. No way
he’s that good of an actor.”
“Ah. So you’re going for the old just-because-he-had-the-murder-weapon-on-him-doesn’t-
mean-he-did-it defense,” Cooper says, with a shrug. “Well, it’s an oldie, but goodie. But I
suppose someone else could have shot the guy and slipped the gun in Sebastian’s bag…”
“Exactly!” I cry, brightening, as a Volvo station wagon being driven by an angelic-looking
soccer mom—who gives us the finger—passes us just as we’re merging onto I–684. “That
has to be what happened. So that means it has to have been someone with whom Sebastian
came into contact yesterday morning, sometime between the murder and his arrest. Which,” I
add, glumly, “could’ve been a million and a half people. I’m sure he was all over campus,
between his classes, his GSC stuff, and everything else Sebastian is into. I saw him in the
chess circle in the park with Sarah and all those reporters. Any one of those homeless guys in
there could’ve walked up and slipped anything they wanted into that bag, and he never
would’ve noticed. No one would’ve.”
“Well, I’m sure his lawyers are on it,” Cooper says calmly.
“Don’t they need to find, I don’t know, gunpowder residue on his hands?” I ask. “And
witnesses?”
“He’s got motive,” Cooper says. “And the murder weapon. And no alibi. The DA’s probably
thinking this one’s pretty open-and-shut.”
“Right. Except for one thing,” I grumble. “Sebastian didn’t do it.”
My cell phone chirps. Patty’s on the line. I know she can’t be particularly pleased with me,
but I’m surprised by just how immediately she makes her unhappiness with me known when
I pick up.
“Right back?” she barks. “You’re on your way to Westchester? But you’ll be right back?”
  
“I had to go,” I say. Patty’s normally the most cheerful of women. Except when she’s in her
first trimester. And second. And, now that I think back to right before Indiana was born, her
third, too. In fact, pretty much during her whole pregnancy. “I didn’t want to get into it right
then."
“Why? Because you knew I’d tell you you’re crazy?” Patty demands. “Because going to
Rock Ridge to bail a kid who isn’t even your own out of jail is crazy? Just like marrying a
guy you’ve only been going out with for three months is crazy?”
I have to hold the phone away from my head, she’s yelling so loudly. I can’t help glancing at
Cooper to see if he’s overheard. But he’s messing with the tape deck—oh yes, the 2002 only
has a tape deck—to turn up the dulcet tones of Ella. I think I’m safe.
“I’m not going to Rock Ridge to bail him out,” I growl into my phone. “I’m just going there
to talk to him. Besides”—I lower my voice further, turning my head toward the window—
“you’re the one who brought the bridal magazines over. Plus, he hasn’t even asked me yet.
All he said was that he had something he wanted to—”
“What? I can’t even hear you? Heather, a man is dead. Shot in the head just feet from your
desk. In the same building where, just a few months ago, you yourself were nearly killed.
What is it going to take to convince you that you need a different job? A job where people
don’t DIE all the time?”
“Funny you should mention that,” I say, glancing at Cooper out of the corner of my eye
again. Now he’s keeping his gaze on the road, because a very large semi is passing us, the
driver pulling angrily on his horn because we’re going so slowly. Cooper doesn’t seem the
least bit perturbed by this. In fact, he waves happily at the trucker.
“What is that sound?” Patty demands. “Are you on a boat?”
“No, I’m not on a boat,” I say.
“Because that sounds like a foghorn.”
“It’s just a truck. I’m on the highway. Patty, this isn’t really the best time to have this
conversation—”
“Heather, you know I’m only saying these things because I love you like a sister.” And, just
like a sister, Patty completely ignores me. “But something has got to give. You can’t go on
like this, sleeping with one guy while being in love with another—”
“What’s that, Patty?” I say, making whooshing noises with my mouth. “You’re breaking up.”
“Heather, I know you’re totally making those noises. You don’t even sound anything
remotely like static. When you get back to town, we are sitting down and having a talk.”
“Uh-oh, can’t hear you at all now, must be passing through a no-cell-tower zone, gotta go,
bye.”
I hang up. As soon as I do, Cooper goes, “Tad asked you to marry him?”
  
“God!” I cry, frustrated. “No! Okay?”
“Then why did you say that Patty brought you a bunch of bridal magazines?”
“Because everyone is jumping the gun,” I say. Then wince. “Ouch. I didn’t mean to use the
word gun. It’s just that the other day, Tad said he has something he wants to ask me, but only
when the timing is right.” I cannot believe I am sharing this information with Cooper, the last
person with whom I enjoy discussing matters pertaining to my boyfriend. I am going to kill
Patty when I get back to town. I really am. “But I’m sure it’s nothing, I never should have
mentioned it to anyone, especially Tom, who has the biggest mouth in the known universe,
and—”
“You guys have only been going out for a couple of months,” Cooper says, to the steering
wheel.
“Yeah,” I say. “But. You know.”
“No,” Cooper says. Now he’s looking at me. And if I had to describe his expression, I would
have to say it’s a mingling of incredulity and sarcasm. “I don’t know. What’s happening to
you? Who are you supposed to be now? Britney Spears? My brother’s happily married and
popping out sprog now, and you can’t stand to get left behind, or something? What’s next?
You’re going to get yourself knocked up, too?”
“Excuse me,” I say, taking umbrage. “I didn’t say I was saying yes. I don’t even know that’s
what he’s asking. Maybe he’s just asking me to move in with him, or something.”
“And you think that’s a good idea?” Cooper wants to know. “To move in with your math
professor? Who doesn’t even own a TV? Or eat anything except tofu-covered bean strips
dipped in wheat germ dust?”
“You don’t even know what you’re talking about,” I point out to him. Because he doesn’t.
“There isn’t even such a food as what you just described. But if there was, you might want to
look into trying it. Because it might do you some good, judging by all the fast-food wrappers
I see lying around your office. When is the last time you had your cholesterol checked? Your
heart is probably a ticking time bomb.”
“Oh, excuse me, were those your carefully constructed Giada De Laurentiis–inspired Nutella
Chips Ahoy! Macadamia Brittle ice cream sandwiches I saw in the freezer last night?”
I glare at him. “Oh my God, if you ate one—”
“Oh, I ate one, all right,” he says, his gaze back on the road. “I ate them all.”
“Cooper! I made those especially for—”
“For what? For you and Tad? You have got to be kidding me. He wouldn’t touch one of those
hydrogenated fat-wiches if you served it to him on his favorite Frisbee with a big side of
babaganoush.”
  
“Now you’re just being mean,” I point out. “And that’s not like you. What, exactly, is your
problem with Tad? Or your problem with me and Tad, to be exact?”
“I don’t have a problem with Tad,” Cooper says. Although he can’t seem to say the man’s
name without sneering. “Or with you and Tad. I just don’t think—as a friend—your moving
in with him is the best idea.”
“Oh, you don’t?” I ask, wondering where on earth this can be going. “Why?”
“Because the whole thing just has disaster written all over it.”
“For what reason? Just because he’s a vegetarian and I’m not? People with different values
end up together all the time, Cooper. And the TV thing—I’m not convinced it’s a deal
breaker. He just doesn’t know what he’s missing. He still watches movies, you know.”
Cooper makes a noise. If I didn’t know better, I’d have thought it was a snort. “Oh yeah? Do
they all have hobbits in them?”
“God, what is wrong with you?” I demand. “You are being such a d—”
My phone rings again. This time it’s a number I don’t recognize. Fearing it might be
something to do with work—which I am, admittedly, blowing off—I pick up.
“Heather,” an unfamiliar, albeit jocular-sounding older male voice says. “It’s me, Larry!
Larry Mayer, your dad’s old business partner. Or should I say, new business partner!”
“Oh,” I say faintly. Cooper has just taken the exit to Rock Ridge. “Hi, Larry.”
“Tried to reach you at your office just now, but your boss told me you were on your cell. This
isn’t a bad time, is it? I was hoping we could talk…”
“It’s not the best time,” I say.
“Good, good,” Larry booms, evidently mishearing me. “Been a long time since we last spoke,
huh? God, last time I saw you, I think you still had on those see-through spangly pants you
wore to the MTV music video awards. You know, the ones you got in so much trouble later
with the FCC for ripping off? Which I never understood, because those bikini briefs you had
on underneath covered everything. Well, almost. Ah, good times. Anyway, so your dad and I
were just sitting here talking about you—I bet your ears were burning—and we were
wondering if you’d given any more thought to our proposal.”
“Yeah,” I say. “You know, like I was saying, this really isn’t the best—”
“Because the clock is ticking, sweetheart. We’ve already rented the studio, and if we’re
gonna get started, we need to get in there and start banging some stuff out. Not to put any
pressure on you. But then, if I remember correctly, you always did your best work under
pressure—”
We’re cruising past the low stone walls surrounding rolling green horse pastures and thick
woods—hiding multimillion-dollar homes (with sophisticated security systems) that indicate
  
we’re entering the exclusive bedroom community of Rock Ridge. Cooper’s expression, when
I glance at it, is as closed as the spiked gates at the end of the long, curving driveways we’re
passing.
“Larry, I’m going to have to call you back,” I say. “I’m right in the middle of something at
the moment, something work-related.”
“I understand,” Larry says. “I understand. Your father told me how important that little job of
yours is to you. I’ve just got four words to say to you, sweetheart. Percentage of the gross.
That’s all. Just think about it. Call me. Bye.”
“Bye,” I say. And hang up.
“So,” Cooper says, as we pull into the picturesque village of Rock Ridge proper, all
cobblestones and thatched roofs (and security cameras perched on top of the replica antique
street lamps, to record the moves of every citizen and visitor to the downtown area). “Tell
me.”
“Believe me,” I say. “You don’t want to know. I wish I didn’t even know.”
“Oh,” Cooper says. “I think I do want to know. Do I need to start looking for a new
housemate…and a new bookkeeper?”
I swallow. “I…I don’t know. When I do, you’ll be the first to know. I swear.”
Cooper doesn’t say anything for a minute. Then, to my surprise, he says, “Damn!”
Only not, I realize, in response to what I’ve just told him, but because he’s just driven right
past the police station, and has to turn around.
When we finally return to the police station, we’re a little astonished to note it’s one of the
few places not marked by a Ye Olde sign. We park in one of the many empty spaces in
front—we are, as far as I can tell, the only visitors to the Rock Ridge Police Station on this
spring day…a fact that’s confirmed when we step inside and find the place completely
deserted except for a corpulent man in a dark blue police uniform, seated at a desk and eating
chicken wings. Not far behind him, in the building’s only barred—and scrupulously clean—
jail cell, sits Gavin McGoren, his goatee stained orange as he, too, gnaws on chicken wings.
“There she is,” Chief O’Malley—at least that’s what the nameplate on his desk reads. Plus I
recognize his voice—cries happily. “Heather Wells herself! I’d recognize that hair anywhere.
But you’ve put on a few, hey, honey? Well, who among us hasn’t?”
“HEATHER!”
Gavin leaps from the single cot in his cell and, chicken wings flying everywhere, wraps his
fingers around the bars.
“Hey, there,” Chief O’Malley calls in disapproval. “Don’t you be getting that special sauce
all over everything. I just had the rookie clean in there yesterday.”
  
“Damn,” I hear Cooper say, beneath his breath, as he takes in the sight of Gavin behind bars.
But this time he’s swearing for yet another reason that has nothing to do with me. “I forgot
my camera.”
But Gavin only has eyes for me.
Only not, it turns out, because of his once unrequited crush on me. Because he has something
he needs to tell me.
“Heather,” he cries excitedly. “I’m so glad you’re here. Listen, Jamie says she’s sure it
wasn’t Sebastian who shot Dr. Veatch. She had an appointment with him yesterday because
he was going to help her lodge a formal complaint about a New York College staff member
who made unwanted sexual advances toward her. That’s why she got scared and ran home—
she thinks it’s her fault he got shot. She thinks it was that person who shot him, before he
could lodge the complaint—and that she’s next.”
I feel my heart speed up. “Who was it?” I cry. “Simon Hague?” Oh, please, please let it be
Simon Hague. Could anything be sweeter?
“No,” Gavin says. “Some guy the college just hired. Some guy named Reverend Mark.”
15
Don’t come ’round here
Crying like that
What are you
Some kind of spoiled brat?
“Other People’s Kids”
Written by Heather Wells
I’ve climbed the flagstone steps to the front door—leaded glass. Impressive—and rung the
bell. It does one of those bing-bong-bing-bong, bing-bong-bing-bong numbers, and then an
older-looking blond woman in a lime green sweater and riding jodhpurs—I am not even
kidding—with a pink scarf tied all jauntily around her neck answers the door.
“Yes?” she asks, not unpleasantly.
“Hi,” I say. “I’m Heather Wells, the assistant director of Fischer Hall at New York College.
Are you Jamie Price’s mother?”
The woman looks a little flustered. “Why, yes…I thought you looked familiar. I think we met
when Jamie checked in—”
  
She slips her right hand into the one I’ve held out almost automatically. “Oh, yes. Deborah
Price. Hello.”
I take her hand in mine and shake it. “Hi. Sorry to bother you at home. It’s just that we’ve
noticed Jamie hasn’t been around lately, and her roommate said she’d come home, so I
thought I’d just come up to check and make sure everything is all right. And if she needs a
ride back…well, I’m here…”
“Oh.” Mrs. Price looks even more flustered, but still pleasant. She’s the type that seems to
have been trained to be this way—you know, pleasant, no matter what. College administrator
appearing out of nowhere on her front steps, naked guy in her daughter’s bed. Whatever.
Keep smiling. Beneath the jaunty pink scarf is a pearl necklace. They go nicely with her
perfectly polished riding boots, which don’t have a scuff on them. Have they ever even seen a
stable floor? “Oh my, well! I had no idea the college offered this kind of door-to-door
service!”
“Well, we aim to please,” I say modestly. “Is Jamie here? Can I have a word with her?”
“Oh, well,” Mrs. Price says. “Yes, of course. Come in, won’t you? You said you drove?” I
notice her blue-eyed gaze—no wrinkles around her eyes. Botox? Plastic surgery? Or simply
good genes?—dart past me, toward the circular driveway. “I don’t see your car.”
“I parked downtown,” I explain. “It’s such a pretty day, I thought I’d walk.”
This isn’t even a lie. Exactly. The Prices don’t live that far, it turns out, from the Rock Ridge
Police Department. Chief O’Malley was more than happy to direct me to their house while
Cooper was sitting in the car on his cell phone, grappling with one of the many bail
bondsmen he happens to know (because, after the initial hilarity rubbed off, in the end, even
he couldn’t leave Gavin sitting in jail for another night).
And while I knew Cooper wasn’t likely to approve of my trudging up the long driveway to
the big stone house on the hill—with the green and white stables to one side, and the pond
filled with giant goldfish (yes, I checked), and the matching Jaguars in the four-car garage to
the other—and I’d no doubt hear about it the whole way home, I figured it would be worth it.
I had to know what the deal was with Reverend Mark.
Because I didn’t—not for a New York minute—believe he’d shot Owen Veatch.
But I was dying to know why Jamie thought he had.
“I won’t lie to you, Ms. Wells,” Mrs. Price says, as we head to the bottom of a long, curling
staircase. The house, though furnished with suits of armor and heavy antique furniture to give
the impression of being old, is actually new construction, with the ubiquitous “great room”
common to the McMansions of the day; the front entrance actually leads into the dining
room, living room, TV room, kitchen, and what appears to be a billiard/library. Out back, I
can see a gigantic black granite pool, complete with hot tub and, further on, tennis courts.
There is no sign of Mr. Price. I can only assume he’s at work, paying for all of this.
“I’m actually relieved to see you,” Mrs. Price goes on. “The past twenty-four hours, since
Jamie showed up here, haven’t been the greatest.”
  
“Really?” I say, pretending not to have the slightest idea what she’s talking about. “Why?”
“Jamie and her father haven’t always gotten along—well, they’re so much alike, you see, and
she’s always been Daddy’s little girl, and last night…this boy from her school showed up—
here, of all places—”
I pretend to look shocked. “You don’t say.”
Mrs. Price shakes her head in wonder. Clearly, the idea of any boy finding her daughter
appealing is still a new one on her. “We found him in her bed! Well, of course, it wasn’t as if
he hadn’t been invited, if you know what I mean. I mean, he hadn’t FORCED himself on her.
But she’d let him in behind our backs. Roy and I had no idea. She isn’t allowed to entertain
boys in her room. I know she’s over eighteen, and a legal adult, but she’s still living under
our roof, and while we’re paying for her education, we expect her to live by our rules. We’re
Presbyterian. You have to have principles.”
“Of course,” I say primly.
“Long story short, Roy completely overreacted,” Mrs. Price informs me. “He called the
police! Now the poor boy is in jail. And Jamie isn’t speaking to either of us.”
“Oh no,” I say, trying to look concerned.
“Exactly,” Mrs. Price says. “You know, Jamie and I have never had a typical mother-
daughter relationship. Now, her older sister and I—well, we’re much more alike. But Jamie
was always a tomboy, and so…I don’t know. Large. You know. She’s like you…big boned.
We never had very much in common, whereas her sister and I are the same size—an eight.
We share everything. So I can’t get a word out of her this morning. Maybe you can?”
I shrug. “Gosh,” I say. “I don’t know. I can try, I guess.”
“Would you?” Mrs. Price cocks her head. “Because, you know, I have to leave for my
dressage lesson.”
“Your what?”
“Dressage,” Mrs. Price says again, as if by repeating it, I’ll get it. “Jamie!” Mrs. Price calls
up the staircase. “Would you like some coffee, Ms. Wells?”
“I’d love some,” I say.
“Fine. It’s in the pot in the kitchen. Help yourself. There are mugs in the rack. JAMIE!”
“God, what, Mom?” Jamie appears at the top of the stairs, dressed in a pair of terry-cloth
shorts and a pink T-shirt, her long blond hair tumbling around her wide shoulders. She
appears to have just woken up. Would that I ever looked as good when just roused from
slumber.
When her gaze falls on me, her eyes widen.
  
“You!” Jamie cries. But she doesn’t look inclined to run. She seems more curious than
frightened.
“Jamie, Ms. Wells is here from your school,” Jamie’s mom says. “I want you to talk to her.
She says she’ll give you a ride back if you want. And it might be better if you just went with
her. You know how angry Daddy is. It might be just as well if you weren’t here tonight when
he gets home from work. Let things blow over.”
“I’m not going anywhere,” Jamie declares, her chin sliding out stubbornly, “until he drops all
the charges against Gavin!”
I can’t help noticing that at home, Jamie doesn’t do that thing where she ends all her
sentences with an interrogative inflection. At all.
“Well, that isn’t going to happen in this lifetime, honey,” Mrs. Price says. “I don’t have time
for this now. I have to go to dressage. I told Ms. Wells to help herself to coffee. Stay away
from that cherry crumble I made. It’s for my Home and Garden Association meeting tonight.
Bye, now.”
With that, Mrs. Price darts from the “great room.” A few seconds later, one of the Jaguars
parked in front of the garage roars to life, and Mrs. Price peels out and drives away.
“Wow,” I say, mostly to break the silence that follows. “She must really like dressage.
Whatever that is.”
“She doesn’t give a shit about dressage,” Jamie informs me disgustedly. “She’s screwing her
instructor. Because, you know, she has principles.”
“Oh.” I watch as Jamie comes all the way down the stairs, passes me, heads into the kitchen,
takes one of the mugs off the antique-looking rack by the coffeemaker, and pours herself a
cup. “I’ll take one of those, too,” I say.
“Help yourself,” Jamie, gracious as her mother, says. She goes to the refrigerator, opens it,
and pulls out a pint of half-and-half, sloshing a generous portion into her mug. Then, noticing
my expression, she sloshes some into the mug I’ve taken down, as well, before returning the
pint to the fridge.
“So,” I say, as I pour coffee into my mug. “You don’t need to worry about Gavin. We’re
posting his bail.”
Jamie throws me a startled look. “You are?”
I nod. The coffee is delicious. But it would be better with sugar. I look around for some.
“He’ll be out in an hour or so.”
“Oh my God.” Jamie pulls a chair from the purposefully old-looking kitchen table and sinks
down into it like her legs couldn’t support her anymore, or something. Then she buries her
face in her hands. “Thank you. Thank you so much.”
  
“Don’t mention it,” I say. I find the sugar and ladle a spoonful into my cup. Then, after a
moment’s thought, another. Ah. Perfect. Well, almost. Whipped cream would make it perfect.
But beggars can’t be choosers. “But I want something in return.”
“Anything,” Jamie says, looking up. I’m surprised to see that her makeup-free face is wet
with tears. “I’m serious. I’ve been freaking out all morning. I didn’t know where I was going
to get that kind of money to bail him out. I’ll do anything. Just…thank you.”
“Seriously,” I say, pulling out one of the chairs near hers. I can’t help noticing that Mrs. Price
has set the cherry crumble down in the middle of the table to cool. It is in a clear glass deep
dish, and the sugary crust over the top of the cherry filling is caramelized. Seriously, what
kind of demon mom would leave something like that just sitting out, with no protective
covering? No wonder Jamie seems to hate her so much. I know I would. “Like I said, don’t
mention it. But what’s this thing Gavin told me about you and the Reverend Mark?”
Jamie’s expression falls.
“Oh,” she says gloomily. “He wasn’t supposed to tell anyone about that.”
“Jamie,” I say. “A man is dead. And you seem to think what happened to you might have
something to do with it. You can’t tell me not to tell the police about it. You know they
arrested someone for Dr. Veatch’s murder? Someone who may not have done it? At least, if
what you’re saying is true.”
Jamie is chewing her bottom lip. I can’t help noticing she’s eyeing the cherry crumble. I’m
glad I’ve kept my spoon from the sugar bowl. You know, just in case I need it.
“My parents wanted to make sure I kept up with the whole principle thing,” Jamie says,
sipping her coffee, “when I went away to college. And I did. I joined the campus youth
group. I like to sing. I don’t want to do it professionally, or anything, like you. I want to be an
accountant. I just like to sing for fun. So I joined the youth group choir. I liked it. At least…I
used to. Until Reverend Mark showed up.”
To my complete and utter joy, she reaches for the cherry crumble, drags it toward her, and
plunges her own spoon into it, cracking the caramelized crust over the top, and causing the
thick cherry goo inside to cascade over the edge like lava. Popping the steaming spoonful into
her mouth, she shoves the dish toward me. I follow her example.
Hello. Heaven in my mouth. Mrs. Price may be a bitch. But she’s an angel in the kitchen.
“What’d he do to you?” I ask with my mouth full. The crumble is hella hot, as Gavin would
say.
“Not just me,” Jamie points out, as I push the crumble back at her. “All the girls. And he
doesn’t do anything obvious. Like, he’s not sticking his tongue down our throats or anything.
But he brushes up against us every chance he gets when we’re setting up the risers, or
whatever, then pretends like it was an accident, and apologizes.” She loads up her spoon, then
pushes the dish back to me. “Touches our boobs, or our butts. It’s gross. And I know it’s not
an accident. And eventually—not with me, because I’d haul off and break his nose, but with
  
some girl who isn’t as big as me, and is afraid of him, or whatever—it’s going to go too far.
And I want to stop it before it gets to that point. I want to stop it now.”
I remember how Reverend Mark had blushed when Muffy Fowler had thrust her breast into
his hand during our build-a-house-out-of-newspaper game. But that had been no
accident…and on her initiative, not his. She’d been a willing, not unwilling, participant.
I load up my own spoon. Now that the crumble’s crust has been broken, it’s cooling fast. But
still just as delicious.
“So you were going to report it to Dr. Veatch?” I ask.
“I did report it,” Jamie says. “I mean, verbally, last week. I was supposed to have a follow-up
meeting with him yesterday to fill out the formal written complaint that would go to
Reverend Mark’s supervisor, and the board of trustees. Only—”
“Someone shot him,” I say.
“Exactly.”
“But what makes you think it was Reverend Mark that did the shooting? How did he even
know you were meeting with Dr. Veatch?”
Jamie winces. And not because she’s accidentally bitten down on a cherry pit.
“I made the mistake of trying to get some of the other girls in the choir to go with me to
report him. I mean, he was doing it to all of us. I figured if we all went together, we’d have a
stronger case. You know how hard it is to prove these kinds of things. The problem was, the
other girls, they—”
“Some of them liked what he was doing?” I volunteer, when she hesitates.
“Exactly,” Jamie says. “Or they didn’t think he was doing anything wrong, or believe it really
was on purpose, and said that I was making a mountain out of a molehill.” Jamie takes an
even bigger than normal heap of crumble, and stuffs it into her mouth. “Who knows? Maybe
I was.”
“Jamie,” I say. “You weren’t. If it made you uncomfortable, you were right to say something
to someone.”
“Maybe,” Jamie says, swallowing. “I don’t know. Anyway. One of the girls got so mad when
she found out what I was doing, she warned Reverend Mark about it.”
“God,” I say. I’d have killed that girl. I admire Jamie for her restraint in not doing so.
“I know. He took me aside after our rehearsal the night before last and tried to talk to me
about it. He made a joke out of it, saying he’s just a big friendly guy and doesn’t always
know what he’s doing with his hands. It was so…gross.”
