“I’m sure Father Joseph can find you housing with the Daughters of Charity,” Monsieur
Pelletier counseled. “Don’t be embarrassed to ask for help, Suzette. They do the work of God.”
“Why, yes,” his wife agreed enthusiastically. “I’ve heard the Daughters of Charity are very
helpful in these situations.”
Suzette smiled and tried to reassure them both. “I will take care of it tomorrow. I promise.”
The next day, she visited Father Joseph at St. Cecilia’s, a neighborhood parish. The Father
extended his sympathy, but Suzette purposely avoided discussing spiritual matters. Her anger
toward God about the death of her father had poisoned her faith.
Suzette controlled her emotions during their meeting, as the priest told her about the
outreach to the poor by St. Vincent de Paul and the Daughters of Charity. He would arrange for
her to find cover under their roof until she could find work and a permanent place to live.
When the day arrived for her to venture out on her own, sadness bore upon her heart like a
heavy stone. She stood in the doorway of her neighbors’ apartment, holding her life’s
belongings in a small leather suitcase. Crushed inside were as many clothes as she could carry,
along with her rosary, pictures, and precious letter.
She looked gratefully at Monsieur and Madame Pelletier. Suzette loved them for their
kindness and benevolent nature.
“Thank you for being here for me. I don’t know what I would have done without your help
and advice.” She gave each of them a tight hug, finding it difficult to let go.
“Please,” Madame Pelletier implored with tears, “take care of yourself. There are bound to
be brighter days ahead. I just know it!”
In a fatherly fashion, Monsieur Pelletier bent down and kissed Suzette on the forehead. “Be
well, my child. God is with you.”
Suzette forced a smile, said her final goodbye, and walked out of the building into a
frightening world of uncertainty.
Chapter Three
The walk to the Daughters of Charity proved long and arduous as she hauled her bulky
suitcase though the city streets. Suzette’s feet dragged as if weights were tied around her ankles.
Her former life faded away with each step she took in the opposite direction. The foggy, griefstricken
days of the last weeks had lifted to reveal the cold, stark reality of her plight.
On the way to the shelter, Suzette nervously traversed the streets nearing the poorer
sections of eastern Paris. Her entire life had been lived modestly, in a relatively clean and
secure environment. Now, as she walked further into the bowels of the ancient city, the sights,
smells, and sounds assaulted her senses. The streets, riddled with debris and trash, merged with
the stench of urine. Suzette battled nausea from the myriad of aromas and struggled with fear as
she passed drunkards, beggars, and street prostitutes glaring at her along the way.
As she continued to walk down the crowded sidewalk, an odor of rotting human flesh grew
stronger with each step. She thought that she had experienced all that death had to offer, until
Suzette found herself face-to-face with bodies in the picture window of the local morgue.
Horrified, she gazed upon corpses displayed to the public for the purpose of identification. The
awful smell turned her stomach. Quickly, she pulled out her hankie, covered her nose, and ran
down the sidewalk to escape the stench.
Finally, able to breathe fresher air, she spotted her destination and sighed in relief seeing
the sign of St. Vincent de Paul. It was housed in an old brick building. The frontage appeared to
crumble from age, which made the building look unstable. As she glanced around at the squalor
surrounding her, she concluded it had to be better than the poverty of the cold and dirty streets.
Hesitantly, she closed the distance and stood in front of the open door. Not once in her
eighteen years of life did she give thought to the struggle of the poor. Now, that she was among
them, she felt ashamed over her lack of empathy. She hoped the Daughters of Charity would be
her salvation and the nightmare of her circumstance would be short lived.
She took a deep breath and stepped over the threshold unsure of what to expect. Her heart
beat thunderously in her chest. Suzette glanced around at the surroundings to get her bearings.
A long corridor lay ahead with multiple doors extending to the right and left. One displayed a
sign with the word “ENREGISTREMENT.” She walked to the entrance and spotted a nun
sitting behind a small desk. The Sister, engrossed in her paperwork, did not see her in the
doorway, so Suzette cleared her throat until she caught her attention.
“May I help you?” Her eyes glanced at Suzette’s suitcase, and the nun returned a warm,
welcoming smile that eased Suzette’s anxiousness.
“Yes, I am in need of temporary shelter, Sister.”
“Of course, dear. Come in and sit down.”
Suzette slowly approached an old wooden chair. The legs wobbled as her body met the
seat.
“I’m Sister Mary,” the nun said warmly. “What is your name?”
“My name is Suzette Rousseau. Father Joseph of St. Cecilia’s wrote to you about me.”
“Oh, yes,” she said. “I have his letter here somewhere.” She shoved the papers around on
her desk until she finally found the correspondence. After adjusting her reading glasses, she
perused it once more.
“My father passed away a few weeks ago,” Suzette interjected, adding to her recitation of
the letter. She paused for a moment as her knees began to bounce up and down, making her look
like a frightened child. “They sold his property to pay his debts, and I am now without a home. I
need somewhere to stay until I can find work and housing.” Her voice shook with desperation.
The Sister lifted her eyes and looked compassionately at Suzette. “I am terribly sorry, my
dear, for your loss. It is always difficult when we lose someone we love, oui?”
The nun’s genuine concern touched Suzette’s heart like a warm embrace, and unbridled
tears fell from her eyes.
“We are here to help. Don’t be dismayed.”
Suzette wiped her wet face with the palm of her hands and tried to compose herself.
“We just need to fill out some paperwork. Do you feel up to answering a few questions for
me?”
Suzette blew her nose in her hankie. “Yes,” she mumbled.
“What is full your name?”
“Suzette Camille Rousseau.”
“Ah, Suzette, I love that name. Lily.”
“Lily?” she replied, quizzically.
“Yes, it’s the meaning of your name. Didn’t you know?” Sister Mary smiled warmly. “My
favorite lily is the Lily of the Valley. It’s a reference to our Savior in the Song of Solomon in
scripture. It means you will find happiness.”
“That’s lovely,” Suzette responded with an insincere grin. “Lilies have always been my
favorite flowers, but happiness seems far away right now.” Her mind recalled the lily she threw
upon her father’s body during his burial.
“I understand, Suzette, but have faith. All things work together for good. God will make
sure you live out the full meaning of your name.” The nun returned her focus to the paperwork.
After finishing, she explained the regulations.
“I’m afraid, Suzette, we can only give you temporary housing for a short period of time.
You are lucky that today I even have a bed for you.” Earlier that morning, one of the former
female residents passed away from consumption. The Sister decided not to mention the cause,
in case it frightened Suzette.
“The men, of course, are housed in a different building a block away. We keep strict rules.
There is to be no consorting between male and females. Do you understand?”
“Yes, of course, Sister.”
“Very well then. Follow me, and I’ll show you the dormitory quarters.”
She led Suzette down a long hallway to the entrance of a large room filled with bunk beds
and cots. Suzette glanced around at the dark and dingy lodgings and sighed, trying to be
thankful it wasn’t the cold pavement of the street outdoors. The Sister escorted her to an empty
top bunk.
“You can sleep here, and there is room for your suitcase in the corner.” She paused for a
bit, and then gave a warning. “I’m sorry to say that not all the girls who come here are
goodhearted. Though we turn no one away, we have problems with thefts of personal
belongings, so I suggest you keep an eye on anything you do not wish to lose.”
“Yes, of course,” Suzette replied, wondering why anyone would want to steal her meager
things.
“There is a common bath chamber down the end of the hall with two bathtubs. We have
chamber attendants who can help you carry hot water to the tubs. I’m afraid our plumbing is
rather antiquated. Follow me, and I’ll show you where that is located.”
Suzette set her suitcase down upon her mattress and then followed Sister Mary. After a
brief tour of the bath facilities, the Sister directed her to the dining area.
“We serve one meal a day,” she announced, with a tone of sadness. “Unfortunately, our
funding is limited, but we do try to give our residents one hearty meal.”
Sister Mary then led her down the hallway to a wall board covered with pieces of paper.
“You’ll have your work cut out for you, dear, I’m sorry to say, in finding employment. We pray
for all our girls that God will provide, but sometimes it takes time. Don’t get discouraged.”
She pointed to the pinned notices dangling from the board. “Occasionally, some of the
larger washhouses or other industries hiring women post help wanted announcements here. I
encourage everyone to look daily at the new postings. Of course, you should also go out each
day and search for work on your own.”
Suzette walked back to the dormitory, while Sister Mary continued to expound on life at
the charity house.
“We have a chapel where you can visit for prayer and light a candle for your father, if you
wish. All of the Sisters gather for vespers at six o’clock in the evening, and you are welcome to
join us.”
“Thank you, Sister Mary. You are most helpful.”
“Very good then. I must return to my paperwork. You may come to me at any time if you
need something.”
After flashing a warm smile, she turned and walked back to her modest office. Suzette
watched as the nun’s starched-white cornet flapped up and down like the wings of a bird. She
chuckled aloud at the sight. It was the first time she had laughed about anything in weeks, and it
surprised her that she was able to find a morsel of humor amidst the bleak surroundings.
* * *
“So, what brings you here?”
The voice startled Suzette out of a sound sleep. Her eyelids shot open, and she turned her
head to the right. A pair of inquisitive brown lashes flapped up and down. The stranger
emanated a foul odor from her breath, which caused Suzette to wrinkle her nose.
“I beg your pardon?” she responded.
“Well now, what don’t you understand, eh? What brings you here?”
Suzette sat up in bed and yawned. Alarmed over the brash introduction, she pulled her
scratchy, wool blanket up to her neck to shield her body. “I’m homeless,” she retorted, a bit
annoyed. “What brings you here?”
“My lover threw me out on the street. That’s what brought me here. Life of a lourette, you
know,” she slurred in a tone of disgust. “Now I’m out trying to find work and a place to live,
but I swear I’m about to go out again and sell my body to the highest bidder. Can’t stand all
these nuns. Too much religion around here for my taste.”
Suzette’s eyes widened at her irreverent admission. “Is that necessary?”
“Necessary?” The woman laughed. “What? You mean to sell your body for food?” She
studied Suzette more closely and then leaned into her face. “Well, you’re a pretty little thing
that would bring a good price on the street.” She grinned and then whispered in a low voice.
“You know, the Sisters can’t keep you here forever, love. They’ll give you ‘bout a week, and
you’ll be out on your derrière.”
“Please, don’t speak of such things,” Suzette snapped in disgust.
The woman threw her head back and laughed.
Suzette wanted to escape her taunting visitor, so she reached out to grab her robe, which
she placed at the foot of her bed the night before. It wasn’t there.
“Where’s my robe?” she squeaked in surprise.
Her eyes darted to the floor, wondering if it had fallen off the bed. Most of the cots and
bunks in the room were empty. The remaining women shrugged their shoulders and turned
away with indifference.
“Don’t know,” said her neighbor. “Perhaps somebody took it!” She smiled deviously at
Suzette.
Suzette felt appalled. She looked at her suitcase on the floor and discovered to her horror it
lay open. Her belongings were strewn about.
“I don’t believe it!” she exclaimed, jumping out of the upper bunk. Her feet hit the cold
floor with a thud. She bent down on her knees and examined the remaining contents. The best
of her clothes were gone, and only one old dress and a few undergarments remained. Frantic,
she looked for her shoes and discovered them missing, as well. She stood up enraged at the
thievery and glared at the occupants of the room demanding answers.
“What are you, animals?” she snarled. Suzette shook from anger. Their attitudes were as
cold as the chilly morning air of the dormitory. She picked up her suitcase, slammed it shut, and
fled down the hall to the bath chamber carrying it underneath her arm. Clad only in her linen
gown, she was too angry to care if anyone saw her hasty departure.
She burst inside and was relieved to find it empty. After slamming the door shut behind
her, Suzette leaned against the stone wall, dropped the suitcase at her feet, and sobbed. Sister
Mary had warned her, but instead of heeding her advice, she had trusted others. She scolded
herself for acting like a foolish child and not taking the advice to heart. She could have kept the
suitcase closer to her side. Unable to understand human cruelty, her first lesson left a bitter taste
in her mouth that she would not soon forget.
After washing her face with freezing water, she attempted to brush the tangles out of her
hair. She dressed in her undergarments and slipped on her one remaining dress. The thieves had
stolen the best of her clothing, along with her cloak. She was left with a modest blue, cotton day
dress she wore when housecleaning. The sleeves displayed wear at the elbows, and the lace trim
around the collar was frayed.
Without shoes, she made her way back down to the dormitory. She hesitated at the doorway
and looked inside to see who remained. Everyone had left, and the room was vacant. As she
walked over to her bed, a momentary panic filled her heart. In her haste, she had forgotten to
bring the one thing that was most important.
After frantically lifting the mattress, a sigh of relief escaped her lungs. Her small handbag
was still there, safe from thieving hands. It contained all of her remaining valuables—a few
francs that Monsieur Pelletier had given her upon departure, her rosary, pictures of her mother
and father, and most importantly, her folded letter that she considered the one glowing treasure
in her dark world.
“Thank God,” she breathed in relief. She brought the purse to her chest and hugged it while
her cold feet demanded shoes. Suzette left the dormitory clutching her purse, while she headed
down the hallway to Sister Mary’s office. She stood in the doorway shaking like a leaf in the
wind, and once again cleared her throat to gain the Sister’s attention.
“I’m afraid you were right, Sister,” she said, the words embarrassingly seeping from her
lips. “Someone took my things and stole my shoes.”
“My word, child! They stole your shoes?” She jumped to her feet and came to Suzette’s
side for consolation. “I cannot understand what is wrong with some of the women we house.
We give them the kindness of Christ, and they insist on acting like demons.” She lowered her
head and looked at Suzette’s feet. “Well, at least they didn’t take your stockings,” she chuckled.
“Come with me.”
She took Suzette gently by the hand and led the way down the hall to a locked door. Sister
Mary took out a key ring from her pocket, found the right one, inserted it into the lock, and
pushed open the door. Suzette followed her into a room filled with shoes, hats, clothing, and
undergarments.
“These are all donations, I’m afraid. Nothing new here,” she spoke honestly. “But beggars
can’t be choosers, Suzette.” She motioned over to a line of worn women’s shoes and
encouraged Suzette to find a suitable pair.
“Help yourself. See if you can find something that fits.”
Suzette went through the shoes, trying to find a pair close to her size. After numerous
attempts, nothing fit perfectly. Either they were all too large or small. Suzette wasn’t quite sure
what size to pick. Only one pair felt fairly comfortable, and she opted for tight rather than loose,
but later came to regret her choice.
“These will do, Sister Mary,” she said, shoving her toes into a pair of black pumps. Thank
you. I appreciate your kindness.”
“I’m sorry this happened to you, but you can’t say I didn’t warn you of the occasional
riffraff finding shelter under our roof.”
After adjusting to her new footwear, Suzette saw a shawl and wondered if she could ask for
one more item.
“They took my cloak too, Sister. Would you mind if I took a wrap to keep warm while out
on the street?”
“Of course not!” she replied, handing her a shawl of loosely knit yarn.
Suzette grabbed the gift without complaint and followed Sister Mary. The door was
relocked, and the key replaced in the nun’s pocket.
“Are you off to search for work, dear?”
“Yes, Sister.”
“The Lord be with you and give you favor.”
Suzette followed her back to her office and then proceeded to the front door of the charity
house. The brisk morning air accosted her body through the thin cotton dress. She wrapped her
shoulders in the thread-bare shawl to keep warm, hoping the sun would soon rise higher to
warm her cold body.
Her stomach growled, and gnawing hunger pains reminded her that only one meal would be
served later in the day. Thankfully, she had a few francs in her purse. She walked down the
street, intent on finding a bakery and a piece of bread to silence the noise in her belly.
As she traversed the frightening streets once again, Suzette soon realized finding food
would not be her only problem. The tight shoes she put on her feet minutes earlier, painfully
squeezed her toes and rubbed her heels with each step that she took.
She wrinkled her nose again at the putrid smells in the gutter, as she began to limp along in
pain. The awful sights of squalor and poverty filled her heart with fear. If she didn’t find work
quickly, the outcome would be disastrous.
Finally, she arrived at the entrance of a small bakery shop. The aroma of fresh baked bread
caused her mouth to water, and she quickly slipped inside. A few people stood in line. Suzette
glanced at the goods lined up in the glass bakery case. The cost of each item was scrawled with
chalk on a board behind the counter.
As she studied the items for sale, her eyes picked up the movement of tiny weevils crawling
around the loaves. The idea of eating a piece of bread where tiny worms crept made her want to
vomit. No one else appeared shocked by their existence.
Appalled, she spun around and ran out the door looking for a bakery shop in a better part of
town. Even though she was hungry, homeless, and in a horrible position, she wasn’t about to eat
bugs to appease her growling stomach. She had her limits, and this was certainly one of them.
Chapter Four
Suzette wallowed in discouragement after her first day searching for work. She returned in
the late afternoon, just in time to eat her one meal for the day. By the time she made it to the
dining hall, she could barely walk from the blisters on her feet. A sympathetic Sister Mary took
her back to the locked closet, encouraging her to consider a larger pair of shoes.
“It’s better to flop down the street than to limp in the presence of prospective employers.”
Suzette smiled at the nun’s humor and bobbing headpiece, which never failed to amuse her
in the midst of hopelessness.
She ate her meal alone shunning the other women. It filled her empty stomach, but the food
was bland and barely warm. Suzette decided to embrace solitude rather than choosing to
befriend the thieves that had stolen the few items she possessed. They had taken what held
value and discarded the remainder of her useless items. Her purse remained tied to her wrist,
and Suzette refused to abandon it while in the presence of her roommates.
The second night in the dormitory afforded little sleep. The mattress was hard and reeked
of stale body odor. She covered herself with the scratchy wool blanket and turned her face
toward the wall. Secretly, she listened to the women in the dormitory spew their bitterness to
one another. They complained about the food and the nuns asserting their religion. Above all,
they bemoaned their inability to find work.
Suzette, on the other hand, felt shy and bitter in their company. She preferred to tuck her
resentment in the recesses of her soul, rather than articulate it to a group of thieves. In her mind,
there was no use complaining anyway. She only had one goal in life now, and that was to
survive and stay off the streets.
After tuning out the bickering women, Suzette closed her eyes and thought of her father.
She wanted to reminisce over his loving presence in the midst of her struggles. She tried to find
strength in his spirit, but recognized it was his careless ways with money that had placed her in
such a difficult situation. “Oh, Papa,” she whispered, trying to forgive him.
Her aching feet reminded her of her tiring day. She limped from store to store looking for
work. Even though Suzette considered herself an articulate woman, she now realized that her
life had been excessively sheltered. Obviously, her father had protected her far too much. She
wasn’t prepared to face the world on her own.
After the death of her mother, he provided for a governess. She had been bred to be a wife
and caretaker of a home. Suzette acquired skills to embroider, entertain, and run a household.
Her stature was not one of high society, but her father had been a well-respected professor at the
university. He held high hopes for her future nuptials.
Tomorrow will be a new day, she thought. She mumbled her first desperate prayer in
weeks, asking God to provide for her needs. The heaviness of her eyes ushered Suzette into
blissful sleep. At least for a few hours, she would find a reprieve from the challenges that
threatened to destroy her life.
* * *
Relieved that the spring rains were abating, Suzette was greeted by another glorious
morning filled with sunshine. Determined to find work, so she could find housing, she took the
time to bathe and dressed as neatly as possible. Rather than limping into prospective places of
employment with tight shoes, she would flop down the cobblestone walkways in shoes that
were too large for her feet. She learned that stuffing paper into the toes helped to close the gap.
After finding a small bakery along the way, which was weevil free, Suzette purchased a
croissant and a cup of tea from the last bit of funds given to her by Monsieur Pelletier. She
handed over the coins to the clerk feeling as if she were saying goodbye to her last friend—a
silver franc. The morning tea and fluffy pastry brought satisfaction, and Suzette left the café
intent on making it to her destination as soon as possible.
She made her way across town to the dress shops along the Champs-Élysées. The avenue,
choked with busy shoppers, excited her senses as she passed by stores and restaurants of all
varieties. Already, she imagined renting a furnished room inside a boarding house after finding
a job. Nothing would ruin her hopes of finding work.
Nevertheless, her dreams quickly faded after hours of rejection. Store by store turned her
away, giving every possible excuse. It was obvious that her ordinary clothes, which showed
years of wear and frayed seams, ruined her chances. All she received were the contemptible
glances of shopkeepers and clerks, eyeing her up and down. She had been repeatedly shooed
away like a fly, which fueled Suzette’s anger over her stolen clothes. No doubt the thief had
donned her best dress and found work.
By late afternoon, her stomach growled, and she worried about making it back to the shelter
in time for her daily meal. After receiving a shunning glance from a store clerk, she turned and
walked across town as quickly as possible. Frustrated over the flopping shoes, which impeded
her progress, she removed them and began walking in her stocking feet.
By the time she arrived they were torn to shreds, but she had returned in time for her
portion of food. After eating another bland meal alone, Suzette retreated to her bunk bed. She
only wanted to hide beneath the covers and find courage to face another day.
* * *
Depressed and despondent after days of searching for work, Suzette felt pressured. Her
search for employment was no better than most of the girls in the shelter. Bakeries, tailor shops,
restaurants, and whatever else she could think of, turned her away one after the other.
Sister Mary warned the shelter residents that St. Vincent de Paul was at capacity and had
turned away other needy women. When housing became scarce, the shelter requested longtime
residents to leave in order to make room for the incoming poor. Almshouses elsewhere in Paris
were filled to the brim. An appalling number of homeless citizens wandered the streets,
contributing to the crime and filth that Suzette witnessed daily outside the charity doors.
To make matters worse, the Parisian government conducted regular sweeps of the city
streets, gathering homeless vagabonds and deporting them to remote, rural areas. In response to
the aristocracy and bourgeoisie’s request to rid beautiful Paris of what they termed the “scum of
the earth,” a new order had been released to round-up vagrants within the next week. Suzette
knew if she were unsuccessful in finding work, she would eventually be among those taken to
the countryside and dumped like garbage without food and shelter.
Sister Mary recognized Suzette’s good-hearted nature and took a liking to her. After
receiving word from a local washhouse about a job opening, she told Suzette before placing it
on the board.
“Why don’t you try to get a job as a laundress? One of the local blanchisseries is seeking
female employees. They will provide housing too.”
Suzette had shunned the known sweat houses of Paris, mostly from fear and disgust.
Becoming a laundress was a less-than-desirable occupation. Social stigma, long hours, and low
pay—none of which sounded appealing—discouraged her from the thought. As Sister Mary
wrote down the name of the washhouse and address on a piece of paper, Suzette caught the
worried look on her face. Even she recognized that the prospects of finding work elsewhere
were bleak. Suzette’s options were dwindling.
“I suppose I can apply,” she said, with resignation.
“It may be only temporary, Suzette, but it will at least provide you a place to sleep, work,
and food for your tummy. We will only be able to keep you for another week, because there are
others who desperately need our charity.”
The announcement did not surprise Suzette. The benevolence of the order had done all they
could for her. One door closed, and another appeared to be opening. Though Suzette thought
bitterly of her choice, it was time to move on.
* * *
“Monsieur Brouchard,” Suzette called over the noise of the washroom. She tried to get the
attention of a tall, thin, gangly-looking man with greasy, shoulder-length hair. When he heard
Suzette’s voice, he swung around and looked disdainfully at her, sending a chill down her spine.
Suzette was not pleased with the rude gawk.
“Yes? What is it?” He voice barked at her like an angry dog.
Taken aback by his abrupt response, Suzette hesitated a moment before speaking. “I am
Suzette Rousseau. The Daughters of Charity said you are looking for workers,” she screamed at
him, over the noisy washroom.
His eyes squinted at her, as if he could barely see her standing a few feet away. Suzette
raised her voice even louder.
“I’m here to apply for a job!” Her whole body shook as her exclamation carried throughout
the room. Everyone heard her statement, as workers bent over steaming washbasins lifted their
heads to look in their direction.
He glared and eyed her from top to bottom. “Very well then. Follow me.”
The unkempt man opened the door into a cluttered office and made his way to a small desk
pushed up against a brick wall. His chair creaked when he sat down, and he growled his next
request.
“Close the door, damn it! I can’t hear a word over that cackling racket out there.”
Suzette’s heart raced over his brazen demands, but she dutifully did as he requested. She
turned around and approached the front of his desk. No chairs were available. She nervously
clutched her purse like it possessed some magical power to protect her in that terrifying
moment.
“So, you want a job as a laundress, do you?” He picked up a cigar, bit off the tip, and spit
into a nearby trashcan filled to the brim with paper and rotting food. He lit the cigar with a
match and blew a few puffs, while he continued to look at the size of her waist and breasts. His
lingering gaze at her bosom caused Suzette to blush in embarrassment.
“Frankly, after seeing your stature, I don’t think you can do the job.” He took rapid puffs
on his cigar, and then blew the smoke into the air above his head.
“It takes a strong woman to walk around the streets of Paris hauling baskets of clean
laundry to our clients and dirty ones back to the washhouse. You need muscles! The baskets
weigh twenty-five to thirty-five pounds apiece.” His eyes roved over her body once more before
he bluntly asked, “Do you think you can handle that?”
Suzette was unsure if she could, but desperation pushed a boldface lie from her lips. “Yes,
monsieur. I’ve carried heavy weight, though I am small. I’m sure I can handle anything.”
“Frankly, I don’t know,” he mumbled, letting the doubt eat at her until he was satisfied she
had suffered his indecision long enough. If her career as a wash woman failed, there were
always other possibilities for her in the future.
He examined Suzette, who looked like a little bird quivering in fear. Pretty and petite. Just
the way I like ‘em. He imagined undressing her like a hungry wolf, and then decided to hire her
just in case she came in handy for other purposes. Women would sell just about anything for
food in their bellies.
“If I provide you a cot to sleep on, your hours will be from 5 a.m. until 11 p.m. each day.
Your pay will be three francs per day. If I’m satisfied after a month that you are able to carry
out your duties, I will raise it to three and a quarter francs per day.”
Monsieur Brouchard doubted the young woman would last a month hauling baskets
through the streets of Paris. She reeked of untouched innocence, which both disgusted and
enticed him at the same time. The washhouse would toughen her up for whatever lay ahead. The
women currently in his employ had been there for years and were rough around the edges, most
of them morally loose and alcoholics. They’d spread their legs for a decent meal. He chuckled
out loud over what the dainty little creature was about to endure. It was time to give her exactly
what she came for.
“Since you have no experience, I can only assign you to washing sheets, tablecloths, and
curtains. Unless I know you have the ability to wash blouses or shirt fronts, you’ll not be
allowed to touch the clothes of my best clients.”
Suzette pleaded, “Monsieur Brouchard, I would be most indebted to you if you would let
