Little phrases such as "I'm sorry to trouble you," "Would you be so
kind as to ----? " "Won't you please?" " Would you mind?" "Thank
you" - little courtesies like these oil the cogs of the monotonous
grind of everyday life- and, incidentally, they are the hallmark of
good breeding.
Let's take another illustration. Hall Caine's novels-The Christian, The
Deemster, The Manxman, among them - were all best-sellers in the
early part of this century. Millions of people read his novels,
countless millions. He was the son of a blacksmith. He never had
more than eight years' schooling in his life; yet when he died he was
the richest literary man of his time.
The story goes like this: Hall Caine loved sonnets and ballads; so he
devoured all of Dante Gabriel Rossetti's poetry. He even wrote a
lecture chanting the praises of Rossetti's artistic achievement-and
sent a copy to Rossetti himself. Rossetti was delighted. "Any young
man who has such an exalted opinion of my ability," Rossetti
probably said to himself, "must be brilliant," So Rossetti invited this
blacksmith's son to come to London and act as his secretary. That
was the turning point in Hall Caine's life; for, in his new position, he
met the literary artists of the day. Profiting by their advice and
inspired by their encouragement, he launched upon a career that
emblazoned his name across the sky.
His home, Greeba Castle, on the Isle of Man, became a Mecca for
tourists from the far corners of the world, and he left a multimillion
dollar estate. Yet - who knows - he might have died poor and
unknown had he not written an essay expressing his admiration for a
famous man.
Such is the power, the stupendous power, of sincere, heartfelt
appreciation.
Rossetti considered himself important. That is not strange, Almost
everyone considers himself important, very important.
The life of many a person could probably be changed if only
someone would make him feel important. Ronald J. Rowland, who is
one of the instructors of our course in California, is also a teacher of
arts and crafts. He wrote to us about a student named Chris in his
beginning crafts class:
Chris was a very quiet, shy boy lacking in self-confidence, the kind of
student that often does not receive the attention he deserves. I also
teach an advanced class that had grown to be somewhat of a status
symbol and a privilege for a student to have earned the right to be in
it. On Wednesday, Chris was diligently working at his desk. I really
felt there was a hidden fire deep inside him. I asked Chris if he
would like to be in the advanced class. How I wish I could express
the look in Chris's face, the emotions in that shy fourteen-year-old
boy, trying to hold back his tears.
"Who me, Mr. Rowland? Am I good enough?"
"Yes, Chris, you are good enough."
I had to leave at that point because tears were coming to my eyes.
As Chris walked out of class that day, seemingly two inches taller, he
looked at me with bright blue eyes and said in a positive voice,
"Thank you, Mr. Rowland."
Chris taught me a lesson I will never forget-our deep desire to feel
important. To help me never forget this rule, I made a sign which
reads "YOU ARE IMPORTANT." This sign hangs in the front of the
classroom for all to see and to remind me that each student I face is
equally important.
The unvarnished truth is that almost all the people you meet feel
themselves superior to you in some way, and a sure way to their
hearts is to let them realize in some subtle way that you recognize
their importance, and recognize it sincerely.
Remember what Emerson said: "Every man I meet is my superior in
some way. In that, I learn of him."
And the pathetic part of it is that frequently those who have the least
justification for a feeling of achievement bolster up their egos by a
show of tumult and conceit which is truly nauseating. As
Shakespeare put it: "... man, proud man,/Drest in a little brief
authority,/ ... Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven/As make
the angels weep."
I am going to tell you how business people in my own courses have
applied these principles with remarkable results. Let's take the case
of a Connecticut attorney (because of his relatives he prefers not to
have his name mentioned).
Shortly after joining the course, Mr. R----- drove to Long Island with
his wife to visit some of her relatives. She left him to chat with an old
aunt of hers and ther rushed off by herself to visit some of the
younger relatives. Since he soon had to give a speech professionally
on how he applied the principles of appreciation, he thought he
would gain some worthwhile experience talking with the-elderly lady.
So he looked around the house to see what he could honestly
admire.
"This house was built about 1890, wasn't it?" he inquired.
"Yes," she replied, "that is precisely the year it was built."
"It reminds me of the house I was born in," he said. "It's beautiful.
Well built. Roomy. You know, they don't build houses like this
anymore."
"You're right," the old lady agreed. "The young folks nowadays don't
care for beautiful homes. All they want is a small apartment, and
then they go off gadding about in their automobiles.
"This is a dream house," she said in a voice vibrating with tender
memories. "This house was built with love. My husband and I
dreamed about it for years before we built it. We didn't have an
architect. We planned it all ourselves."
She showed Mr. R----- about the house, and he expressed his hearty
admiration for the beautiful treasures she had picked up in her
travels and cherished over a lifetime - paisley shawls, an old English
tea set, Wedgwood china, French beds and chairs, Italian paintings,
and silk draperies that had once hung in a French chateau.
After showing Mr. R----- through the house, she took him out to the
garage. There, jacked up on blocks, was a Packard car - in mint
condition.
"My husband bought that car for me shortly before he passed on,"
she said softly. "I have never ridden in it since his death. ... You
appreciate nice things, and I'm going to give this car to you."
"Why, aunty," he said, "you overwhelm me. I appreciate your
generosity, of course; but I couldn't possibly accept it. I'm not even
a relative of yours. I have a new car, and you have many relatives
that would like to have that Packard."
"Relatives!" she exclaimed. "Yes, I have relatives who are just
waiting till I die so they can get that car. But they are not going to
get it."
"If you don't want to give it to them, you can very easily sell it to a
secondhand dealer," he told her.
"Sell it!" she cried. "Do you think I would sell this car? Do you think I
could stand to see strangers riding up and down the street in that
car - that car that my husband bought for me? I wouldn't dream of
selling it. I'm going to give it to you. You appreciate beautiful
things."
He tried to get out of accepting the car, but he couldn't without
hurting her feelings.
This lady, left all alone in a big house with her paisley shawls, her
French antiques, and her memories, was starving for a little
recognition, She had once been young and beautiful and sought
after She had once built a house warm with love and had collected
things from all over Europe to make it beautiful. Now, in the isolated
loneliness of old age, she craved a little human warmth, a little
genuine appreciation - and no one gave it to her. And when she
found it, like a spring in the desert, her gratitude couldn't adequately
express itself with anything less than the gift of her cherished
Packard.
Let's take another case: Donald M. McMahon, who was
superintendent of Lewis and Valentine, nurserymen and landscape
architects in Rye, New York, related this incident:
"Shortly after I attended the talk on 'How to Win Friends and
Influence People,' I was landscaping the estate of a famous attorney.
The owner came out to give me a few instructions about where he
wished to plant a mass of rhododendrons and azaleas.
"I said, 'Judge, you have a lovely hobby. I've been admiring your
beautiful dogs. I understand you win a lot of blue ribbons every year
at the show in Madison Square Garden.'
"The effect of this little expression of appreciation was striking.
" 'Yes,' the judge replied, 'I do have a lot of fun with my dogs. Would
you like to see my kennel?'
"He spent almost an hour showing me his dogs and the prizes they
had won. He even brought out their pedigrees and explained about
the bloodlines responsible for such beauty and intelligence.
"Finally, turning to me, he asked: 'Do you have any small children?'
" 'Yes, I do,' I replied, 'I have a son.'
" 'Well, wouldn't he like a puppy?' the judge inquired.
" 'Oh, yes, he'd be tickled pink.'
" 'All right, I'm going to give him one,' the . judge announced.
He started to tell me how to feed the puppy. Then he paused. 'You'll
forget it if I tell you. I'll write it out.' So the judge went in the house,
typed out the pedigree and feeding instructions, and gave me a
puppy worth several hundred dollars and one hour and fifteen
minutes of his valuable time largely because I had expressed my
honest admiration for his hobby and achievements."
George Eastman, of Kodak fame, invented the transparent film that
made motion pictures possible, amassed a fortune of a hundred
million dollars, and made himself one of the most famous
businessmen on earth. Yet in spite of all these tremendous
accomplishments, he craved little recognitions even as you and I.
To illustrate: When Eastman was building the Eastman School of
Music and also Kilbourn Hall in Rochester, James Adamson, then
president of the Superior Seating Company of New York, wanted to
get the order to supply the theater chairs for these buildings.
Phoning the architect, Mr. Adamson made an appointment to see Mr.
Eastman in Rochester.
When Adamson arrived, the architect said: "I know you want to get
this order, but I can tell you right now that you won't stand a ghost
of a show if you take more than five minutes of George Eastman's
time. He is a strict disciplinarian. He is very busy. So tell your story
quickly and get out."
Adamson was prepared to do just that.
When he was ushered into the room he saw Mr. Eastman bending
over a pile of papers at his desk. Presently, Mr. Eastman looked up,
removed his glasses, and walked toward the architect and Mr.
Adamson, saying: "Good morning, gentlemen, what can I do for
you?"
The architect introduced them, and then Mr. Adamson said: "While
we've been waiting for you, Mr. Eastman, I've been admiring your
office. I wouldn't mind working in a room like this myself. I'm in the
interior-woodworking business, and I never saw a more beautiful
office in all my life."
George Eastman replied: "You remind me of something I had almost
forgotten. It is beautiful, isn't it? I enjoyed it a great deal when it
was first built. But I come down here now with a lot of other things
on my mind and sometimes don't even see the room for weeks at a
time ."
Adamson walked over and rubbed his hand across a panel. "This is
English oak, isn't it? A little different texture from Italian oak."
"Yes," Eastman replied. "Imported English oak. It was selected for
me by a friend who specializes in fine woods ."
Then Eastman showed him about the room, commenting on the
proportions, the coloring, the hand carving and other effects he had
helped to plan and execute.
While drifting about the room, admiring the wood-work, they paused
before a window, and George Eastman, in his modest, soft-spoken
way, pointed out some of the institutions through which he was
trying to help humanity: the University of Rochester, the General
Hospital, the Homeopathic Hospital, the Friendly Home, the
Children's Hospital. Mr. Adamson congratulated him warmly on the
idealistic way he was using his wealth to alleviate the sufferings of
humanity. Presently, George Eastman unlocked a glass case and
pulled out the first camera he had ever owned - an invention he had
bought from an Englishman.
Adamson questioned him at length about his early struggles to get
started in business, and Mr. Eastman spoke with real feeling about
the poverty of his childhood, telling how his widowed mother had
kept a boardinghouse while he clerked in an insurance office. The
terror of poverty haunted him day and night, and he resolved to
make enough money so that his mother wouldn't have to work, Mr.
Adamson drew him out with further questions and listened,
absorbed, while he related the story of his experiments with dry
photographic plates. He told how he had worked in an office all day,
and sometimes experimented all night, taking only brief naps while
the chemicals were working, sometimes working and sleeping in his
clothes for seventy-two hours at a stretch.
James Adamson had been ushered into Eastman's office at tenfifteen
and had been warned that he must not take more than five
minutes; but an hour had passed, then two hours passed. And they
were still talking. Finally, George Eastman turned to Adamson and
said, "The last time I was in Japan I bought some chairs, brought
them home, and put them in my sun porch. But the sun peeled the
paint, so I went downtown the other day and bought some paint and
painted the chairs myself. Would you like to see what sort of a job I
can do painting chairs? All right. Come up to my home and have
lunch with me and I'll show you."
After lunch, Mr. Eastman showed Adamson the chairs he had
brought from Japan. They weren't worth more than a few dollars,
but George Eastman, now a multimillionaire, was proud of them
because he himself had painted them.
The order for the seats amounted to $90,000. Who do you suppose
got the order - James Adamson or one of his competitors?
From the time of this story until Mr. Eastman's death, he and James
Adamson were close friends.
Claude Marais, a restaurant owner in Rouen, France, used this
principle and saved his restaurant the loss of a key employee. This
woman had been in his employ for five years and was a vital link
between M. Marais and his staff of twenty-one people. He was
shocked to receive a registered letter from her advising him of her
resignation.
M. Marais reported: "I was very surprised and, even more,
disappointed, because I was under the impression that I had been
fair to her and receptive to her needs. Inasmuch as she was a friend
as well as an employee, I probably had taken her too much for
granted and maybe was even more demanding of her than of other
employees.
"I could not, of course, accept this resignation without some
explanation. I took her aside and said, 'Paulette, you must
understand that I cannot accept your resignation You mean a great
deal to me and to this company, and you are as important to the
success of this restaurant as I am.' I repeated this in front of the
entire staff, and I invited her to my home and reiterated my
confidence in her with my family present.
"Paulette withdrew her resignation, and today I can rely on her as
never before. I frequently reinforce this by expressing my
appreciation for what she does and showing her how important she
is to me and to the restaurant."
"Talk to people about themselves," said Disraeli, one of the
shrewdest men who ever ruled the British Empire. "Talk to people
about themselves and they will listen for hours ."
• Principle 6 - Make the other person feel important-and do it
sincerely.
~~~~
In a Nutshell - Six Ways To Make People Like You
• Principle 1 - Become genuinely interested in other people.
• Principle 2 - Smile.
• Principle 3 - Remember that a person's name is to that person the
sweetest and most important sound in any language.
• Principle 4 - Be a good listener. Encourage others to talk about
themselves.
• Principle 5 - Talk in terms of the other person's interests.
• Principle 6 - Make the other person feel important-and do it
sincerely.
---------------------------------------
Part Three - How To Win People To Your Way Of Thinking
1 You Can't Win An Argument
Shortly after the close of World War I, I learned an invaluable lesson
one night in London. I was manager at the time for Sir Ross Smith.
During the war, Sir Ross had been the Australian ace out in
Palestine; and shortly after peace was declared, he astonished the
world by flying halfway around it in thirty days. No such feat had
ever been attempted before. It created a tremendous sensation. The
Australian government awarded him fifty thousand dollars; the King
of England knighted him; and, for a while, he was the most talkedabout
man under the Union Jack. I was attending a banquet one
night given in Sir Ross's honor; and during the dinner, the man
sitting next to me told a humorous story which hinged on the
quotation "There's a divinity that shapes our ends, rough-hew them
how we will."
The raconteur mentioned that the quotation was from the Bible. He
was wrong. I knew that, I knew it positively. There couldn't be the
slightest doubt about it. And so, to get a feeling of importance and
display my superiority, I appointed myself as an unsolicited and
unwelcome committee of one to correct him. He stuck to his guns.
What? From Shakespeare? Impossible! Absurd! That quotation was
from the Bible. And he knew it.
The storyteller was sitting on my right; and Frank Gammond, an old
friend of mine, was seated at my left. Mr. Gammond had devoted
years to the study of Shakespeare, So the storyteller and I agreed to
submit the question to Mr. Gammond. Mr. Gammond listened, kicked
me under the table, and then said: "Dale, you are wrong. The
gentleman is right. It is from the Bible."
On our way home that night, I said to Mr. Gammond: "Frank, you
knew that quotation was from Shakespeare,"
"Yes, of course," he replied, "Hamlet, Act Five, Scene Two. But we
were guests at a festive occasion, my dear Dale. Why prove to a
man he is wrong? Is that going to make him like you? Why not let
him save his face? He didn't ask for your opinion. He didn't want it.
Why argue with him? Always avoid the acute angle." The man who
said that taught me a lesson I'll never forget. I not only had made
the storyteller uncomfortable, but had put my friend in an
embarrassing situation. How much better it would have been had I
not become argumentative.
It was a sorely needed lesson because I had been an inveterate
arguer. During my youth, I had argued with my brother about
everything under the Milky Way. When I went to college, I studied
logic and argumentation and went in for debating contests. Talk
about being from Missouri, I was born there. I had to be shown.
Later, I taught debating and argumentation in New York; and once, I
am ashamed to admit, I planned to write a book on the subject.
Since then, I have listened to, engaged in, and watched the effect of
thousands of arguments. As a result of all this, I have come to the
conclusion that there is only one way under high heaven to get the
best of an argument - and that is to avoid it .
Avoid it as you would avoid rattlesnakes and earthquakes.
Nine times out of ten, an argument ends with each of the
contestants more firmly convinced than ever that he is absolutely
right.
You can't win an argument. You can't because if you lose it, you lose
it; and if you win it, you lose it. Why? Well, suppose you triumph
over the other man and shoot his argument full of holes and prove
that he is non compos mentis. Then what? You will feel fine. But
what about him? You have made him feel inferior. You have hurt his
pride. He will resent your triumph. And -
A man convinced against his will Is of the same opinion still.
Years ago Patrick J. O'Haire joined one of my classes. He had had
little education, and how he loved a scrap! He had once been a
chauffeur, and he came to me because he had been trying, without
much success, to sell trucks. A little questioning brought out the fact
that he was continually scrapping with and antagonizing the very
people he was trying to do business with, If a prospect said anything
derogatory about the trucks he was selling, Pat saw red and was
right at the customer's throat. Pat won a lot of arguments in those
days. As he said to me afterward, "I often walked out of an office
saving: 'I told that bird something.' Sure I had told him something,
but I hadn't sold him anything."
Mv first problem was not to teach Patrick J. O'Haire to talk. My
immediate task was to train him to refrain from talking and to avoid
verbal fights.
Mr. O'Haire became one of the star salesmen for the White Motor
Company in New York. How did he do it? Here is his story in his own
words: "If I walk into a buyer's office now and he says: 'What? A
White truck?
They're no good! I wouldn't take one if you gave it to me. I'm going
to buy the Whose-It truck,' I say, 'The Whose-It is a good truck. If
you buy the Whose-It, you'll never make a mistake. The Whose-Its
are made by a fine company and sold by good people.'
"He is speechless then. There is no room for an argument. If he says
the Whose-It is best and I say sure it is, he has to stop. He can't
keep on all afternoon saying, 'It's the best' when I'm agreeing with
him. We then get off the subject of Whose-It and I begin to talk
about the good points of the White truck.
"There was a time when a remark like his first one would have made
me see scarlet and red and orange. I would start arguing against the
Whose-It; and the more I argued against it, the more my prospect
argued in favor of it; and the more he argued, the more he sold
himself on my competitor's product.
"As I look back now I wonder how I was ever able to sell anything. I
lost years of my life in scrapping and arguing. I keep my mouth shut
now. It pays."
As wise old Ben Franklin used to say:
If you argue and rankle and contradict, you may achieve a victory
sometimes; but it will be an empty victory because you will never get
your opponent's good will.
So figure it out for yourself. Which would you rather have, an
academic, theatrical victory or a person's good will? You can seldom
have both.
The Boston Transcript once printed this bit of significant doggerel:
Here lies the body of William Jay, . Who died maintaining his right of
way-He was right, dead right, as he sped along, But he's just as
dead as if he were wrong.
You may be right, dead right, as you speed along in your argument;
but as far as changing another's mind is concerned, you will probably
be just as futile as if you were wrong.
Frederick S. Parsons, an income tax consultant, had been disputing
and wrangling for an hour with a gover-ment tax inspector. An item
of nine thousand dollars was at stake. Mr. Parsons claimed that this
nine thousand dollars was in reality a bad debt, that it would never
be collected, that it ought not to be taxed. "Bad debt, my eye !"
retorted the inspector. "It must be taxed."
"This inspector was cold, arrogant and stubborn," Mr. Parsons said
as he told the story to the class. "Reason was wasted and so were
facts. . . The longer we argued, the more stubborn he became. So I
decided to avoid argument, change the subject, and give him
appreciation.
"I said, 'I suppose this is a very petty matter in comparison with the
really important and difficult decisions you're required to make. I've
made a study of taxation myself. But I've had to get my knowledge
from books. You are getting yours from the firing line of experience.
I sometime wish I had a job like yours. It would teach me a lot.' I
meant every word I said.
"Well." The inspector straightened up in his chair, leaned back, and
talked for a long time about his work, telling me of the clever frauds
he had uncovered. His tone gradually became friendly, and presently
he was telling me about his children. As he left, he advised me that
he would consider my problem further and give me his decision in a
few days.
"He called at my office three days later and informed me that he had
decided to leave the tax return exactly as it was filed."
This tax inspector was demonstrating one of the most common of
human frailties. He wanted a feeling of importance; and as long as
Mr. Parsons argued with him, he got his feeling of importance by
loudly asserting his authority. But as soon as his importance was
admitted and the argument stopped and he was permitted to expand
his ego, he became a sympathetic and kindly human being.
Buddha said: "Hatred is never ended by hatred but by love," and a
misunderstanding is never ended by an argument but by tact,
diplomacy, conciliation and a sympathetic desire to see the other
person's viewpoint.
Lincoln once reprimanded a young army officer for indulging in a
violent controversy with an associate. "No man who is resolved to
make the most of himself," said Lincoln, "can spare time for personal
contention. Still less can he afford to take the consequences,
including the vitiation of his temper and the loss of self-control. Yield
larger things to which you show no more than equal rights; and yield
lesser ones though clearly your own. Better give your path to a dog
than be bitten by him in contesting for the right. Even killing the dog
would not cure the bite."
In an article in Bits and Pieces,* some suggestions are made on how
to keep a disagreement from becoming an argument:
Welcome the disagreement. Remember the slogan, "When two
partners always agree, one of them is not necessary." If there is
some point you haven't thought about, be thankful if it is brought to
your attention. Perhaps this disagreement is your opportunity to be
corrected before you make a serious mistake.
Distrust your first instinctive impression. Our first natural reaction in
a disagreeable situation is to be defensive. Be careful. Keep calm and
watch out for your first reaction. It may be you at your worst, not
your best.
Control your temper. Remember, you can measure the size of a
person by what makes him or her angry.
Listen first. Give your opponents a chance to talk. Let them finish. Do
not resist, defend or debate. This only raises barriers. Try to build
bridges of understanding. Don't build higher barriers of
misunderstanding.
Look for areas of agreement. When you have heard your opponents
out, dwell first on the points and areas on which you agree.
Be honest, Look for areas where you can admit error and say so.
Apologize for your mistakes. It will help disarm your opponents and
reduce defensiveness.
Promise to think over your opponents' ideas and study them
carefully. And mean it. Your opponents may be right. It is a lot easier
at this stage to agree to think about their points than to move rapidly
ahead and find yourself in a position where your opponents can say:
"We tried to tell you, but you wouldn't listen."
Thank your opponents sincerely for their interest. Anyone who takes
the time to disagree with you is interested in the same things you
are. Think of them as people who really want to help you, and you
may turn your opponents into friends.
Postpone action to give both sides time to think through the
problem. Suggest that a new meeting be held later that day or the
next day, when all the facts may be brought to bear. In preparation
for this meeting, ask yourself some hard questions:
Could my opponents be right? Partly right? Is there truth or merit in
their position or argument? Is my reaction one that will relieve the
problem, or will it just relieve any frustration? Will my reaction drive
my opponents further away or draw them closer to me? Will my
reaction elevate the estimation good people have of me? Will I win
or lose? What price will I have to pay if I win? If I am quiet about it,
will the disagreement blow over? Is this difficult situation an
opportunity for me?
* Bits and Pieces, published by The Economics Press, Fairfield, N.J.
Opera tenor Jan Peerce, after he was married nearly fifty years, once
said: "My wife and I made a pact a long time ago, and we've kept it
no matter how angry we've grown with each other. When one yells,
the other should listen-because when two people yell, there is no
communication, just noise and bad vibrations."
• Principle 1 The only way to get the best of an argument is to avoid
it.
~~~~~~~
2 - A Sure Way Of Making Enemies -And How To Avoid It
When Theodore Roosevelt was in the White House, he confessed
that if he could be right 75 percent of the time, he would reach the
highest measure of his expectation.
If that was the highest rating that one of the most distinguished men
of the twentieth century could hope to obtain, what about you and
me?
If you can be sure of being right only 55 percent of the time, you can
go down to Wall Street and make a million dollars a day. If you can't
be sure of being right even 55 percent of the time, why should you
tell other people they are wrong?
You can tell people they are wrong by a look or an intonation or a
gesture just as eloquently as you can in words - and if you tell them
they are wrong, do you make them want to agree with you? Never!
For you have struck a direct blow at their intelligence, judgment,
pride and self-respect. That will make them want to strike back. But
it will never make them want to change their minds. You may then
hurl at them all the logic of a Plato or an Immanuel Kant, but you will
not alter their opinions, for you have hurt their feelings.
Never begin by announcing "I am going to prove so-and-so to you."
That's bad. That's tantamount to saying: "I'm smarter than you are,
I'm going to tell you a thing or two and make you change your
mind."

