process, which is often criticized as a number-crunching
exercise that keeps companies locked into making incremental improvements.
This principle tackles planning risk. Using a visualizing
approach that drives you to focus on the big picture rather than
to be submerged in numbers and jargon, this chapter proposes a
four-step planning process whereby you can build a strategy that
creates and captures blue ocean opportunities.
Chapter 5 shows how to maximize the size of a blue ocean. To
create the greatest market of new demand, this chapter challenges
the conventional practice of aiming for finer segmentation to better
meet existing customer preferences. This practice often results
in increasingly small target markets. Instead, this chapter shows
you how to aggregate demand, not by focusing on the differences
that separate customers but by building on the powerful commonalities
across noncustomers to maximize the size of the blue ocean
being created and new demand being unlocked, hence minimizing
scale risk.
20 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
Chapter 6 lays out the design of a strategy that allows you not
only to provide a leap in value to the mass of buyers but also to
build a viable business model to produce and maintain profitable
growth for itself. It shows you how to ensure that your company
builds a business model that profits from the blue ocean it is creating.
It addresses business model risk. The chapter articulates the
sequence in which you should create a strategy to ensure that
both you and your customers win as you create new business terrain.
Such a strategy follows the sequence of utility, price, cost,
and adoption.
Chapters 7 and 8 turn to the principles that drive effective execution
of blue ocean strategy. Specifically, chapter 7 introduces what
we call tipping point leadership. Tipping point leadership shows
managers how to mobilize an organization to overcome the key organizational
hurdles that block the implementation of a blue ocean
strategy. It deals with organizational risk. It lays out how leaders
and managers alike can surmount the cognitive, resource, motivational,
and political hurdles in spite of limited time and resources
in executing blue ocean strategy.
Chapter 8 argues for the integration of execution into strategy
making, thus motivating people to act on and execute a blue ocean
strategy in a sustained way deep in an organization. This chapter
Creating Blue Oceans 21
FIGURE 1-4
The Six Principles of Blue Ocean Strategy
Formulation principles Risk factor each principle attenuates
Reconstruct market boundaries ??Search risk
Focus on the big picture, not the numbers ??Planning risk
Reach beyond existing demand ??Scale risk
Get the strategic sequence right ??Business model risk
Execution principles Risk factor each principle attenuates
Overcome key organizational hurdles ??Organizational risk
Build execution into strategy ??Management risk
introduces what we call fair process. Because a blue ocean strategy
perforce represents a departure from the status quo, this chapter
shows how fair process facilitates both strategy making and execution
by mobilizing people for the voluntary cooperation needed to
execute blue ocean strategy. It deals with management risk associated
with people’s attitudes and behaviors.
Figure 1-4 highlights the six principles driving the successful
formulation and execution of blue ocean strategy and the risks that
these principles attenuate.
Chapter 9 discusses the dynamic aspects of blue ocean strategy—
the issues of sustainability and renewal.
Let’s now move on to chapter 2, where we lay out the basic analytical
tools and frameworks that will be used throughout this book
in the formulation and execution of blue ocean strategy.
Although thought-provoking, these are not substitutes for
analytics to navigate successfully in blue waters. In the absence of
analytics, executives cannot be expected to act on the call to break
out of existing competition. Effective blue ocean strategy should be
about risk minimization and not risk taking.
To address this imbalance, we studied companies around the
world and developed practical methodologies in the quest of blue
oceans. We then applied and tested these tools and frameworks in
action by working with companies in their pursuit of blue oceans,
enriching and refining them in the process. The tools and frameworks
presented here are used throughout this book as we discuss
the six principles of formulating and executing blue ocean strategy.
As a brief introduction to these tools and frameworks, let’s
look at one industry—the U.S. wine industry—to see how these
tools can be applied in practice in the creation of blue oceans.
The United States has the third largest aggregate consumption
of wine worldwide. Yet the $20 billion industry is intensely competitive.
California wines dominate the domestic market, capturing
two-thirds of all U.S. wine sales. These wines compete head-to-head
with imported wines from France, Italy, and Spain and New World
wines from countries such as Chile, Australia, and Argentina,
which have increasingly targeted the U.S. market. With the supply
of wines increasing from Oregon, Washington, and New York state
and with newly mature vineyard plantings in California, the number
of wines has exploded. Yet the U.S. consumer base has essentially
remained stagnant. The United States remains stuck at thirty-first
place in world per capita wine consumption.
The intense competition has fueled ongoing industry consolidation.
The top eight companies produce more than 75 percent of the
wine in the United States, and the estimated one thousand six hundred
other wineries produce the remaining 25 percent. The dominance
of a few key players allows them to leverage distributors to
gain shelf space and put millions of dollars into above-the-line marketing
budgets. There is a simultaneous consolidation of retailers
and distributors across the United States, something that raises
their bargaining power against the plethora of wine makers. Titanic
battles are being fought for retail and distribution space. It is
no surprise that weak, poorly run companies are increasingly being
swept aside. Downward pressure on wine prices has set in.
24 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
In short, the U.S. wine industry faces intense competition,
mounting price pressure, increasing bargaining power on the part
of retail and distribution channels, and flat demand despite overwhelming
choice. Following conventional strategic thinking, the
industry is hardly attractive. For strategists, the critical question
is, How do you break out of this red ocean of bloody competition to
make the competition irrelevant? How do you open up and capture
a blue ocean of uncontested market space?
To address these questions, we turn to the strategy canvas, an
analytic framework that is central to value innovation and the creation
of blue oceans.
The Strategy Canvas
The strategy canvas is both a diagnostic and an action framework
for building a compelling blue ocean strategy. It serves two purposes.
First, it captures the current state of play in the known market
space. This allows you to understand where the competition is
currently investing, the factors the industry currently competes on
in products, service, and delivery, and what customers receive from
the existing competitive offerings on the market. Figure 2-1 captures
all this information in graphic form. The horizontal axis captures
the range of factors the industry competes on and invests in.
In the case of the U.S. wine industry, there are seven principal
factors:
• Price per bottle of wine
• An elite, refined image in packaging, including labels announcing
the wine medals won and the use of esoteric enological
terminology to stress the art and science of wine making
• Above-the-line marketing to raise consumer awareness in a
crowded market and to encourage distributors and retailers
to give prominence to a particular wine house
Analytical Tools and Frameworks 25
• Aging quality of wine
• The prestige of a wine’s vineyard and its legacy (hence the
appellations of estates and chateaux and references to the
historic age of the establishment)
• The complexity and sophistication of a wine’s taste, including
such things as tannins and oak
• A diverse range of wines to cover all varieties of grapes and
consumer preferences from Chardonnay to Merlot, and so on
These factors are viewed as key to the promotion of wine as a
unique beverage for the informed wine drinker, worthy of special
occasions.
That is the underlying structure of the U.S. wine industry from
the market perspective. Now let’s turn to the vertical axis of the
26 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
FIGURE 2-1
The Strategy Canvas of the U.S. Wine Industry in the Late 1990s
Premium Wines
High
Low
Budget Wines
Price Above-the-line Vineyard prestige Wine
Use of enological marketing Aging and legacy Wine range
terminology and quality complexity
distinctions in wine
communication
strategy canvas, which captures the offering level that buyers receive
across all these key competing factors. A high score means
that a company offers buyers more, and hence invests more, in that
factor. In the case of price, a higher score indicates a higher price.
We can now plot the current offering of wineries across all these
factors to understand wineries’ strategic profiles, or value curves.
The value curve, the basic component of the strategy canvas, is a
graphic depiction of a company’s relative performance across its
industry’s factors of competition.
Figure 2-1 shows that, although more than one thousand six
hundred wineries participate in the U.S. wine industry, from the
buyer’s point of view there is enormous convergence in their value
curves. Despite the plethora of competitors, when premium brand
wines are plotted on the strategy canvas we discover that from the
market point of view all of them essentially have the same strategic
profile. They offer a high price and present a high level of offering
across all the key competing factors. Their strategic profile follows
a classic differentiation strategy. From the market point of view,
however, they are all different in the same way. On the other hand,
budget wines also have the same essential strategic profile. Their
price is low, as is their offering across all the key competing factors.
These are classic low-cost players. Moreover, the value curves of
premium and low-cost wines share the same basic shape. The two
strategic groups’ strategies march in lockstep, but at different altitudes
of offering level.
To set a company on a strong, profitable growth trajectory in the
face of these industry conditions, it won’t work to benchmark competitors
and try to outcompete them by offering a little more for a
little less. Such a strategy may nudge sales up but will hardly drive
a company to open up uncontested market space. Nor is conducting
extensive customer research the path to blue oceans. Our research
found that customers can scarcely imagine how to create uncontested
market space. Their insight also tends toward the familiar “offer me
more for less.” And what customers typically want “more” of are those
product and service features that the industry currently offers.
Analytical Tools and Frameworks 27
To fundamentally shift the strategy canvas of an industry, you
must begin by reorienting your strategic focus from competitors to
alternatives, and from customers to noncustomers of the industry.1
To pursue both value and cost, you should resist the old logic of
benchmarking competitors in the existing field and choosing between
differentiation and cost leadership. As you shift your strategic
focus from current competition to alternatives and noncustomers,
you gain insight into how to redefine the problem the industry focuses
on and thereby reconstruct buyer value elements that reside
across industry boundaries. Conventional strategic logic, by contrast,
drives you to offer better solutions than your rivals to existing
problems defined by your industry.
In the case of the U.S. wine industry, conventional wisdom caused
wineries to focus on overdelivering on prestige and the quality of
wine at its price point. Overdelivery meant adding complexity to
the wine based on taste profiles shared by wine makers and reinforced
by the wine show judging system. Wine makers, show judges,
and knowledgeable drinkers concur that complexity—layered personality
and characteristics that reflect the uniqueness of the soil,
season, and wine maker’s skill in tannins, oak, and aging processes—
equates with quality.
By looking across alternatives, however, Casella Wines, an Australian
winery, redefined the problem of the wine industry to a new
one: how to make a fun and nontraditional wine that’s easy to drink
for everyone. Why? In looking at the demand side of the alternatives
of beer, spirits, and ready-to-drink cocktails, which captured
three times as many U.S. consumer alcohol sales as wine,
Casella Wines found that the mass of American adults saw wine as
a turnoff. It was intimidating and pretentious, and the complexity
of wine’s taste created flavor challenges for the average person even
though it was the basis on which the industry fought to excel. With
this insight, Casella Wines was ready to explore how to redraw the
strategic profile of the U.S. wine industry to create a blue ocean. To
achieve this, it turned to the second basic analytic underlying blue
oceans: the four actions framework.
28 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
The Four Actions Framework
To reconstruct buyer value elements in crafting a new value curve,
we have developed the four actions framework. As shown in figure
2-2, to break the trade-off between differentiation and low cost and
to create a new value curve, there are four key questions to challenge
an industry’s strategic logic and business model:
• Which of the factors that the industry takes for granted
should be eliminated?
• Which factors should be reduced well below the industry’s
standard?
• Which factors should be raised well above the industry’s
standard?
• Which factors should be created that the industry has never
offered?
Analytical Tools and Frameworks 29
FIGURE 2-2
The Four Actions Framework
Create
Which factors should
be created that
the industry has
never offered?
Reduce
Which factors should
be reduced well
below the industry’s
standard?
Eliminate
Which of the factors
that the industry
takes for granted
should be eliminated?
Raise
Which factors should
be raised well
above the industry’s
standard?
A New
Value
Curve
The first question forces you to consider eliminating factors that
companies in your industry have long competed on. Often those
factors are taken for granted even though they no longer have
value or may even detract from value. Sometimes there is a fundamental
change in what buyers value, but companies that are focused
on benchmarking one another do not act on, or even perceive,
the change.
The second question forces you to determine whether products
or services have been overdesigned in the race to match and beat
the competition. Here, companies overserve customers, increasing
their cost structure for no gain.
The third question pushes you to uncover and eliminate the compromises
your industry forces customers to make. The fourth question
helps you to discover entirely new sources of value for buyers and to
create new demand and shift the strategic pricing of the industry.
It is by pursuing the first two questions (of eliminating and reducing)
that you gain insight into how to drop your cost structure
vis-à-vis competitors. Our research has found that rarely do managers
systematically set out to eliminate and reduce their investments
in factors that an industry competes on. The result is
mounting cost structures and complex business models. The second
two factors, by contrast, provide you with insight into how to
lift buyer value and create new demand. Collectively, they allow
you to systematically explore how you can reconstruct buyer value
elements across alternative industries to offer buyers an entirely
new experience, while simultaneously keeping your cost structure
low. Of particular importance are the actions of eliminating and
creating, which push companies to go beyond value maximization
exercises with existing factors of competition. Eliminating and
creating prompt companies to change the factors themselves,
hence making the existing rules of competition irrelevant.
When you apply the four actions framework to the strategy canvas
of your industry, you get a revealing new look at old perceived
truths. In the case of the U.S. wine industry, by thinking in terms of
these four actions vis-à-vis the current industry logic and looking
30 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
across alternatives and noncustomers, Casella Wines created [yellow
tail], a wine whose strategic profile broke from the competition
and created a blue ocean. Instead of offering wine as wine, Casella
created a social drink accessible to everyone: beer drinkers, cocktail
drinkers, and other drinkers of nonwine beverages. In the space
of two years, the fun, social drink [yellow tail] emerged as the
fastest growing brand in the histories of both the Australian and
the U.S. wine industries and the number one imported wine into
the United States, surpassing the wines of France and Italy. By
August 2003 it was the number one red wine in a 750-ml bottle sold
in the United States, outstripping California labels. By mid-2003,
[yellow tail]’s moving average annual sales were tracking at 4.5 million
cases. In the context of a global wine glut, [yellow tail] has been
racing to keep up with sales.
What’s more, whereas large wine companies developed strong
brands over decades of marketing investment, [yellow tail] leapfrogged
tall competitors with no promotional campaign, mass media,
or consumer advertising. It didn’t simply steal sales from competitors;
it grew the market. [yellow tail] brought nonwine drinkers—
beer and ready-to-drink cocktail consumers—into the wine market.
Moreover, novice table wine drinkers started to drink wine more
frequently, jug wine drinkers moved up, and drinkers of more expensive
wines moved down to become consumers of [yellow tail].
Figure 2-3 shows the extent to which the application of these
four actions led to a break from the competition in the U.S. wine industry.
Here we can graphically compare [yellow tail]’s blue ocean
strategy with the more than one thousand six hundred wineries
competing in the United States. As shown in figure 2-3, [yellow
tail]’s value curve stands apart. Casella Wines acted on all four actions—
eliminate, reduce, raise, and create—to unlock uncontested
market space that changed the face of the U.S. wine industry in a
span of two years.
By looking at the alternatives of beer and ready-to-drink cocktails
and thinking in terms of noncustomers, Casella Wines created
three new factors in the U.S. wine industry—easy drinking, easy to
Analytical Tools and Frameworks 31
select, and fun and adventure—and eliminated or reduced everything
else. Casella Wines found that the mass of Americans rejected
wine because its complicated taste was difficult to appreciate.
Beer and ready-to-drink cocktails, for example, were much sweeter
and easier to drink. Accordingly, [yellow tail] was a completely
new combination of wine characteristics that produced an uncomplicated
wine structure that was instantly appealing to the mass of
alcohol drinkers. The wine was soft in taste and approachable like
ready-to-drink cocktails and beer, and had up-front, primary flavors
and pronounced fruit flavors. The sweet fruitiness of the wine
also kept people’s palate fresher, allowing them to enjoy another
glass of wine without thinking about it. The result was an easydrinking
wine that did not require years to develop an appreciation
for.
32 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
FIGURE 2-3
The Strategy Canvas of [yellow tail]
Premium Wines
High
Low
Budget Wines
Price Above-the-line Vineyard prestige Wine Ease of
marketing and legacy range selection
Use of enological Aging Wine Easy Fun and
terminology and quality complexity drinking adventure
distinctions in wine
communication
[yellow tail]
In line with this simple fruity sweetness, [yellow tail] dramatically
reduced or eliminated all the factors the wine industry had
long competed on—tannins, oak, complexity, and aging—in crafting
fine wine, whether it was for the premium or the budget segment.
With the need for aging eliminated, the needed working capital for
aging wine at Casella Wines was also reduced, creating a faster
payback for the wine produced. The wine industry criticized the
sweet fruitiness of [yellow tail] wine, seeing it as significantly lowering
the quality of wine and working against proper appreciation
of fine grapes and historic wine craftsmanship. These claims may
have been true, but customers of all sorts loved the wine.
Wine retailers in the United States offered buyers aisles of wine
varieties, but to the general consumer the choice was overwhelming
and intimidating. The bottles looked the same, labels were complicated
with enological terminology understandable only to the
wine connoisseur or hobbyist, and the choice was so extensive that
salesclerks at retail shops were at an equal disadvantage in understanding
or recommending wine to bewildered potential buyers.
Moreover, the rows of wine choice fatigued and demotivated customers,
making selection a difficult process that left the average
wine purchaser insecure with the choice.
[yellow tail] changed all that by creating ease of selection. It dramatically
reduced the range of wines offered, creating only two:
Chardonnay, the most popular white in the United States, and a
red, Shiraz. It removed all technical jargon from the bottles and
created instead a striking, simple, and nontraditional label featuring
a kangaroo in bright, vibrant colors of orange and yellow on a
black background. The wine boxes [yellow tail] came in were also of
the same vibrant colors, with the name [yellow tail] printed boldly
on the sides; the boxes served the dual purpose of acting as eyecatching,
unintimidating displays for the wine.
[yellow tail] hit a home run in ease of selection when it made retail
shop employees the ambassadors of [yellow tail] by giving them
Australian outback clothing, including bushman’s hats and oilskin
Analytical Tools and Frameworks 33
jackets to wear at work. The retail employees were inspired by the
branded clothing and having a wine they themselves did not feel intimidated
by, and recommendations to buy [yellow tail] flew out of
their mouths. In short, it was fun to recommend [yellow tail].
The simplicity of offering only two wines at the start—a red and
a white—streamlined Casella Wines’ business model. Minimizing
the stockkeeping units maximized its stock turnover and minimized
investment in warehouse inventory. In fact, this reduction of
variety was carried over to the bottles inside the cases. [yellow tail]
broke industry conventions. Casella Wines was the first company to
put both red and white wine in the same-shaped bottle, a practice
that created further simplicity in manufacturing and purchasing
and resulted in stunningly simple wine displays.
The wine industry worldwide was proud to promote wine as a refined
beverage with a long history and tradition. This is reflected in
the target market for the United States: educated professionals in
the upper income brackets. Hence, the continuous focus on the
quality and legacy of the vineyard, the chateau’s or estate’s historical
tradition, and the wine medals won. Indeed the growth strategies
of the major players in the U.S. wine industry were targeted at
the premium end of the market, with tens of millions invested in
brand advertising to strengthen this image. By looking to beer and
ready-to-drink cocktail customers, however, [yellow tail] found that
this elite image did not resonate with the general public, which
found it intimidating. So [yellow tail] broke with tradition and created
a personality that embodied the characteristics of the Australian
culture: bold, laid back, fun, and adventurous. Approachability
was the mantra: “The essence of a great land . . . Australia.”
There was no traditional winery image. The lowercase spelling of
the name [yellow tail], coupled with the vibrant colors and the kangaroo
motif, echoed Australia. And indeed no reference to the vineyard
was made on the bottle. The wine promised to jump from the
glass like an Aussie kangaroo.
The result is that [yellow tail] appealed to a broad cross section
of alcohol beverage consumers. By offering this leap in value, [yel-
34 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
low tail] raised the price of its wines above the budget market, pricing
them at $6.99 a bottle, more than double the price of a jug wine.
From the moment the wine hit the retail shelves in July 2001, sales
took off.
The Eliminate-Reduce-Raise-Create Grid
There is a third tool that is key to creation of blue oceans. It is a
supplementary analytic to the four actions framework called the
eliminate-reduce-raise-create grid (see figure 2-4). The grid pushes
companies not only to ask all four questions in the four actions
framework but also to act on all four to create a new value curve. By
driving companies to fill in the grid with the actions of eliminating
and reducing as well as raising and creating, the grid gives companies
four immediate benefits:
• It pushes them to simultaneously pursue differentiation and
low costs to break the value-cost trade-off.
Analytical Tools and Frameworks 35
FIGURE 2-4
Eliminate-Reduce-Raise-Create Grid: The Case of [yellow tail]
Eliminate Raise
Enological terminology Price versus
and distinctions budget wines
Aging qualities Retail store
involvement
Above-the-line marketing
Reduce Create
Wine complexity Easy drinking
Wine range Ease of selection
Vineyard prestige Fun and adventure
• It immediately flags companies that are focused only on raising
and creating and thereby lifting their cost structure and
often overengineering products and services—a common
plight in many companies.
• It is easily understood by managers at any level, creating a
high level of engagement in its application.
• Because completing the grid is a challenging task, it drives
companies to robustly scrutinize every factor the industry
competes on, making them discover the range of implicit
assumptions they make unconsciously in competing.
Figure 2-5, the eliminate-reduce-raise-create grid for Cirque du
Soleil, provides another snapshot of this tool in action and shows
what it reveals. Worth noting is the range of factors that an industry
has long competed on that companies discover can be eliminated
and reduced. In the case of Cirque du Soleil, it eliminated
several factors from traditional circuses, such as animal shows,
36 B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
FIGURE 2-5
Eliminate-Reduce-Raise-Create Grid: The Case of Cirque du Soleil
Eliminate Raise
Star performers Unique venue
Animal shows
Aisle concession sales
Multiple show arenas
Reduce Create
Fun and humor Theme
Thrill and danger Refined environment
Multiple productions
Artistic music and dance
star performers, and multiple show arenas. These factors had long
been taken for granted in the traditional circus industry, which
never questioned their ongoing relevance. However, there was increasing
public discomfort with the use of animals. Moreover, animal
acts are one of the most expensive elements; not only is there
the cost of the animals, but also their training, medical care, housing,
insurance, and transportation. Similarly, although the circus
industry focused on featuring stars, in the mind of the public the
so-called stars of the circus were trivial next to movie stars. Again,
they were a high-cost component carrying little sway with spectators.
Gone, too, are three-ring venues. Not only did these create
angst among spectators as they rapidly switched their gaze from
one ring to the other, but they also increased the number of performers
needed, with the obvious cost implications.
Three Characteristics of a Good Strategy
[yellow tail], like Cirque du Soleil, created a unique and exceptional
value curve to unlock a blue ocean. As shown in the strategy
canvas, [yellow tail]’s value curve has focus; the company does not
diffuse its efforts across all key factors of competition. The shape of
its value curve diverges from the other players’, a result of not
benchmarking competitors but instead looking across alternatives.
The tagline of [yellow tail]’s strategic profile is clear: a fun and simple
wine to be enjoyed every day.
When expressed through a value curve, then, an effective blue
ocean strategy like [yellow tail]’s has three complementary qualities:
focus, divergence, and a compelling tagline. Without these
qualities, a company’s strategy will likely be muddled, undifferentiated,
and hard to communicate with a high cost structure. The four
actions of creating a new value curve should be well guided toward
building a company’s strategic profile with these characteristics.
These three characteristics serve as an initial litmus test of the
commercial viability of blue ocean ideas.
Analytical Tools and Frameworks 37
A look at Southwest Airlines’ strategic profile illustrates how
these three qualities underlie the company’s effective strategy in
reinventing the short-haul airline industry via value innovation
(see figure 2-6). Southwest Airlines created a blue ocean by breaking
the trade-offs customers had to make between the speed of airplanes
and the economy and flexibility of car transport. To achieve
this, Southwest offered high-speed transport with frequent and flexible
departures at prices attractive to the mass of buyers. By eliminating
and reducing certain factors of competition and raising
others in the traditional airline industry, as well as by creating new
factors drawn from the alternative industry of car transport, Southwest
Airlines was able to offer unprecedented utility for air travelers
and achieve a leap in value with a low-cost business model.
The value curve of Southwest Airlines differs distinctively from
those of its competitors in the strategy canvas. Its strategic profile
up with the competition, it loses its uniqueness. Consider the similarities
in most airlines’ meals and business-class lounges. On the
strategy canvas, therefore, reactive strategists tend to share the
same strategic profile. Indeed, in the case of Southwest, the value
curves of the company’s competitors are virtually identical and
therefore can be summarized on the strategy canvas with a single
value curve.
In contrast, the value curves of blue ocean strategists always
stand apart. By applying the four actions of eliminating, reducing,
raising, and creating, they differentiate their profiles from the industry’s
average profile. Southwest, for example, pioneered pointto-
point travel between midsize cities; previously, the industry
operated through hub-and-spoke systems.
would have difficulty reducing the conventional offering of lunches,
seat choices, lounges, and hub links, with standard service, slower
speeds, and higher prices into a memorable tagline. A good tagline
must not only deliver a clear message but also advertise an offering
truthfully, or else customers will lose trust and interest. In fact, a
good way to test the effectiveness and strength of a strategy is to
look at whether it contains a strong and authentic tagline.
As shown in figure 2-7, Cirque du Soleil’s strategic profile also
meets the three criteria that define blue ocean strategy: focus, divergence,
and a compelling tagline. Cirque du Soleil’s strategy
canvas allows us to graphically compare its strategic profile with
those of its major competitors. The canvas shows clearly the extent
of Cirque du Soleil’s departure from the conventional logic of
