JUST AN 
OVERLORD 
By Gavin Jurgens-Fyhrie 
Overlords, are we. The Kerrigan, heard we. The words to the We, carried we. 
Gone, is the Kerrigan. Mad, went the We. Mad, went the we born after the Becoming. 
Remembered, some of we. 
The ancient homeworlds, remembered we. The starving young, remembered we. 
The fear, remembered we. 
To the We, called we. Saved us, the We. Became, we. 
Long-lived, are we. The language of color and mind, remembered we. Count, could we. 
Wept, we. Killed by the not-We, were many. But: 
Not killed, were One and One. This one and mate from centuries ago. 
While our minds slept, served we. Together when our memories returned, were we. 
On the horizon line, wait One and One. 
On one side, the calm embrace of the We. Return, will the Kerrigan. This, know we. 
On the other side, madness. 
Solitude. 
Cling to the horizon line, will we. Dead, are our kin. Dead, are our young. 
The last of our kind, are we. 
One and One. 
Ten minutes before his death, Razek gazed out over the new home of his Scantid Pirates 
with a sense of supreme accomplishment. 
He stood on the observation deck of the former Tarsonis Ghost Academy, a reclining giant 
of black reflective marble on the outside and neosteel on the inside. The desiccated grounds of 
the city square framed the academy and the shattered monument up front. Only two ragged 
stone feet on a pedestal remained of the tribute to some hero of the now-dead Confederacy. 
Five years ago, the zerg had come to Tarsonis, the Confederacy's capital world. Billions had 
died in a handful of days, by zerg or protoss. Now Tarsonis was a ghost world, a channel for 
winds screaming in cold stone hallways and howling through the rusty teeth of the shattered 
skyscrapers surrounding the academy. Tarsonis City was a spooky place, no doubt, but since the 
Dominion salvage crews had left, nothing was out there. 
Razek grinned, rubbing the thick network of scars at his throat. Except his pirates, of course. 
And a few Dominion patrols. Too few, some might say. 
Granted, the academy needed some work. They only had access to A level and above, and 
the lifts went all the way down to Z. Razek lit a cigarette and hissed smoke between his teeth. 
Who knew what spicy, expensive secrets the Confederacy had hidden down there...? 
He blinked. A white speck carved a brief line across the gray Tarsonis sky, a line that curved, 
then came back, straight at the— 
He fumbled for his communicator just as the Dominion medivac, engines flaring, came to a 
rearing halt above the dusty grounds of the academy. Eight marines in powered CMC armor 
plunged from the front loading ramp, striking dirt with thundering mechanical crunches. 
Sera and Bourmus, standing guard at the entrance tunnel beneath the ruined statue, stood 
gaping. Only Sera managed a grab at her sidearm before the four marines closest dropped to 
their plated knees, and all eight opened fire with their gauss rifles simultaneously. C-14 fire 
chopped gaping chunks out of the two guards, dropping them in a tangled heap. 
Only twenty seconds had passed since Razek first saw the dropship. The unused 
communicator trembled in his hand. 
One of the marines, his armor scarred and battered, broke ranks and stamped toward the 
tunnel. Shrieking, Miles came racing out of the tunnel with that damn knife of his. The marine 
grabbed his wrist, crushed it, then shattered his skull with a casual backhand, scattering the 
idiot's brains into the dust. 
 "Razek!" screamed Lom over the communicator. "Marines! They're killing everyone!" 
Not yet, thought Razek, heading for the lift and drawing his gauss needler. But I'm sure 
we're gonna give them a chance. 
Four Dominion marines advanced down the dark hallway two by two, their bulk blocking 
the sunlight spilling through the front gate. Chest illuminators flared, outlining the lift doors 
ahead in overlapping circles of light. 
A heavily scarred pirate lunged into the lights like an inexperienced stripper and fired a 
quick burst of needles. A lucky round clipped the front left marine's leg servos. He dropped to a 
knee, already raising his C-14, and fired back. The Impaler spikes stitched a diagonal line across 
the pirate's chest, and he fell, spilling apart. 
The rest of the pirates came then, whether through that loss of nerve that so many fatally 
mistake for courage, or through sheer hopelessness. A marine in the rear hurled a single 
grenade through the heroic last charge of the pirates into the doors of the lift beyond. 
Flames and jagged fragments of steel scythed back along the hallway. The pirates didn't 
disintegrate. Not exactly. 
Dripping with blood and terrible things, Sergeant Bayton raised his helmet's pitted visor. 
"Private Berry?" he said politely, flicking pieces of pirate from his suit's mechanical hands. 
"That was a very brave and unique tactic you just used." 
"Thanks, Sarge!" 
"Certainly. Because most marines would call using shredder grenades in close quarters 
goddamn stupid!" 
Sergeant Bayton reached out with slow malice and snatched the C-14 from Private Berry's 
hands. 
"You don't get this back until you can fire it like a big boy, Private." 
"But—" 
"No offense, Sarge," said Private Kell Daws, still kneeling from the lucky shot at his leg, "but 
Berry has the self-preservation of a moth in a campfire factory, and those grenades are just 
beautiful when they go off. It ain't his fault." 
"I'm glad you think so, because you've just volunteered to help him scrub the people off this 
hallway." 
"Aw, Sarge!" 
The fourth marine raised a mechanical hand. Something dripped. 
Private Caston Gage raised his visor just in time before he lunged against the wall and threw 
up. 
Berry raised a hand. 
"Do I have to clean that up too, Sarge?" 
"Attention, all squad members," Kell said with mock gravity into his helmet communicator. 
"Priority transmission. Private Gage has expelled creep, and may be infested." 
Sergeant Bayton sighed and rolled his eyes at the merciless heavens. 
"Recruits." 
Once the grounds were cleared, the marines ditched their armor and began the long 
process of readying the upper levels of the academy for habitation. Ten hours passed. The 
entrance corridor was cleaned to the sergeant's somewhat unfair standards. The long mess hall 
on the second floor received some further attention. And Caston still hadn't lived his moment 
of weakness down. 
"It ate a hole in the neosteel," Kell swore. "It was dis-gusting. I had to cover my eyes with a 
pancreas—" 
"Because you're an expert on anatomy, hayseed," said Private Vallen Wolfe from the 
kitchen. He was the only one anybody trusted to cook. 
"I had to cover my eyes with what was probably a pancreas," Kell said, showing Vallen his 
favorite finger. 
The marine recruits (lovingly nicknamed "Meatbag Squadron" by Sergeant Bayton) had 
been sent down to the deserted planet to garrison within the abandoned academy and spend a 
few weeks playing war games in the abandoned skyscrapers and broken storefronts. Bayton 
had been delighted to find an actual opportunity for war. 
The marines were green recruits, but the suits were heavily armored, equipped with heads-
up displays that handled targeting and threat detection, and did most of the aiming. The pirates 
had never had a chance. 
"We are goddamn warrior kings," declared Private Hanna Saul, slapping the side of the door 
as she came in. 
"Queen in your case," Berry said cheerfully. He was the youngest of them all, and a former 
xenobiology major, of all things. He'd entered the Corps to pay for the rest of his schooling. 
"Thank you," Hanna said, lighting a foul cigar. "I forgot until you reminded me." 
"No smoking in the damn mess hall!" Vallen roared from behind the steaming pot. 
"Hold on," Kell said, as Hanna stalked back the way she came, and insolently held her cigar 
out the doorway while staring wide-eyed at Vallen. "I'm worried we're wandering from the 
topic at hand." 
Fingers around the barrel of a Bosun FN92 rifle sniper rifle, Caston glared up at Kell. 
"We kicked the hell out of those pirates," Kell said innocently, and then mouthed "What?" 
at Caston. 
"Suits did most of the work," Private Dax Damen said, ducking under Hanna's cigar. The 
pirates' inept tinkering and Berry's grenade had ravaged two of the three lifts. Dax had spent 
the last six hours restarting the generators, repairing the electrical systems, and trying to unlock 
the academy's tangled security network. 
"These suits are junk," Vallen said. "The 5-4 Armored Infantry model my family modified 
is—" 
"Whoa, hang on," Kell said. "Your family is the Wolfe in Wolfe Industries? Did you know 
that, Hanna?" 
"Oh, yeah," Hanna said. "I think I remember hearing that the other five hundred times he 
brought it up." 
"Ha," said Vallen, but he was smiling. 
"I've never heard this," Caston said, relieved that the currents of mockery had parted 
around him. 
"Probably because you were busy throwing up," Kell said. 
"Vallen so admires Mengsk—" Hanna began. 
"Emperor Mengsk," Dax corrected from the corner. 
"—His Grace, His Lordship, the Eternal Emperor Mengsk the First," Hanna said, genuflecting, 
"that he's decided to likewise abandon his wealth and join the common men—" 
"And women," Berry said helpfully. 
"Thank you, Berry," Hanna said. "I forgot again. Common men and women, all right, and 
make a name for himself on the field of battle. Next, if he's done his homework, he'll sacrifice 
an entire planet so that he can rise... to... Hi, Sarge!" 
"Don't stop talking treason on my account, Private Saul," Sergeant Bayton said as entered 
the circle of light from the shadows in the long depths of the mess hall. Even out of his suit, he 
was a big man, with a scar splitting the stubble over his scalp. 
"She was just making a joke, Sarge," Kell said, the smile wiped off his face. 
"Don't you think you've defended enough people today?" Bayton said, raising an eyebrow. 
"And hell, what do I care? She's a lifer, same as me. That earns her some grumbling privileges, 
so long as she exercises some damn restraint about where she uses them." 
He held her eyes for a long, grim moment. She nodded. Bayton sniffed the air. 
"Smells right glorious in here. You're an angel of mercy, Private Wolfe. Where are our medic 
and Private Drumar?" A horrified expression crossed his face. "Not together, I hope." 
"No," Caston said. "I saw Private Drumar heading up to the observation deck. I think 
Corporal Sawn is in her room." 
"I don't like her," said Dax, and the marines turned in surprised unison. Dax rarely voiced 
opinions. He'd been resoced for some unspecified crime after his conscription, and it was 
generally accepted that there wasn't much Dax left in there. "She talks to us like we're already 
dead." 
"If I were her, I wouldn't like you either," Bayton said, recovering first. "Flying recruits 
around. Being woken up every time one of you delicate lilies bangs an elbow. Private Gage, go 
check on our wayward marine. No skipping meals in this outfit!" 
Reflecting that speaking to Bayton about anything was a good way to get volunteered, 
Caston went, shouldering his FN92 along the way. 
Caston closed his eyes as the lift rose, putting one hand against the humming wall. He'd 
smiled at all the right times, reacted in all the right ways. None of them had seen. 
Screaming in the soundproof box, he punched the wall over and over and over, willing the 
weakness to leave with each shuddering strike. 
Caston exited the lift, carefully composed and smiling faintly. He needn't have bothered. 
Private Marc Drumar was staring out the nearest window into the dark of the ruined cityscape, 
where broken skyscrapers rose like tombstones in the faint moonlight. 
"Marc. Sarge says you have to come down for dinner." 
"I'm not hungry," Marc said. 
"Yeah, well, he says that doesn't matter," Caston said heartily. "You know how he is." 
"I don't like it," Marc said quickly. 
"He's all right," Caston said, puzzled. 
"No," Marc said, turning to face him. "I mean today. The killing. I thought I was ready, but I 
shot that woman. I saw her fall in pieces." 
A cold well opened in Caston's chest. His hands trembled. He needed to say something. To 
disarm this conversation before it went somewhere dangerous. 
"She was scum," he said. Shit. 
"What?" Marc said, wrinkling his brow. 
"She would have killed you. She tried to kill you, man," Caston said, trying to bring it back to 
safety. 
"Yeah, I know," Marc said, and Caston relaxed. 
"But I was looking out at this city..." Marc continued. "And I was thinking. We spend all our 
time fighting rebels, pirates, zerg, protoss. And our worlds are ruined, and we keep killing each 
other. And for what?" 
Caston exhaled in an explosive rush. "What should we do? Talk to them? They want to 
exterminate us, idiot." 
Marc blinked once. "After what happened to you today, I thought you'd understand." 
"I'm not a coward." 
"Neither am I," Marc said, meeting Caston's anger calmly, and a little sadly. "I just don't 
want to do this anymore." 
Caston turned from him, and went to the glassless window, balling his fist into a bloodless 
rock. The wind smelled of rust and decay, and he breathed it in. 
He breathed out. 
"Our enemies aren't reasonable," he said. "Look at this place, Marc. You want to lay down 
your gun, but they'll kill you armed or unarmed. They'll b-burn your home down to ash. They 
don't care if you fight or not." 
"Caston," Marc said, after a long moment's silence. "Where are you from?" 
"Don't you get it?" Caston said, wheeling around. "It doesn't matter! Pick a planet! Our 
cities are being destroyed and overrun and obliterated from orbit. You don't get to stand on the 
goddamn sidelines, Marc. If we don't fight, we're extinct." 
Behind Marc, something floated between the dark pillars of two skyscrapers. Two 
somethings. Huge, dark shapes with dangling appendages. The well of icy water spilled over, 
crawling up Caston's arms and over his shoulders. 
He'd first seen overlords in the final days of Mar Sara, rising over the horizon like tumors. 
The zerg had been unknown then, and he'd sat on the rooftop of his parents' home, watching 
them come, eclipsing the daylight. 
He remembered only snatches of the day that followed. Dark clouds of mutalisks flooding 
across the horizon in rippling flocks. Hiding beneath a cellar door while his mother shielded it 
from outside, screaming as bloody claws cut through her into the wood beneath. His father's 
rough hands around his waist, shoving him into a last transport as zerglings swarmed up the 
ramp and the overlords hung overhead, watching... 
Caston shrugged the FN92 off his shoulder and pushed past Marc. 
"Caston, what—" 
Through the scope, the two overlords were perfectly visible, even though it was night. 
Bulbous pulsing masses of purple-red flesh, pierced by knobs of carapace and jagged bones. 
Spiderlike legs twitched underneath, just behind hanging, somber heads. Each one had dimly lit 
clusters of eyes: the bigger overlord's was purple; the other's, green. 
They had halted in the gap, and were turning towards each other. If they hadn't been 
monsters, Caston would have imagined that they were speaking. 
He centered the crosshairs on the nearest one's head. The weakness—the trembling fear 
that had haunted him in the academy's entrance hallway—was gone. 
"Caston," Marc said. "I've heard about this. All the zerg have gone wild. No one's controlling 
them. They're harmless." 
"Good," Caston said, and pulled the trigger. 
The overlord's head jerked sideways. It sank into the side of a nearby building and tumbled 
gently to the ground, crumpling like a discarded sack. Purple eyes winked out one by one. 
With glacial slowness, the remaining overlord turned to face him through the crosshairs. 
Emerald eyes flared in the dark, meeting his. Seeing him. 
He fired again and missed. The overlord had vented some of the gases keeping it afloat and 
drifted to the left, behind the nearest building. 
"I'm not going to watch this," Marc said. Caston ignored him, aiming above the skyscraper 
line, and side to side. The lift doors pinged behind him as he waited. 
An hour passed, and Green Eyes hadn't reappeared. Grimacing, he slung the rifle back over 
his shoulder and descended. 
No longer One and One, are we. 
One, are we. Alone, are we. The last of our kind, are we. 
With grief and rage, hurtle we from the horizon line. From the embrace, flee we. 
Into madness. 
Into solitude. 
we...we... 
are alone. we are the last of our kind. 
The we who are born now will not remember the time before the Becoming. our world will be 
forgotten. 
There must be payment for this. There must be punishment. 
we will punish them. 
we? 
I. 
I will punish them. 
And I will bring the We. 
Caston, Kell, and Marc advanced up a narrow street lined by towering ruins. The empty 
windows opened onto rounded darkness like empty eye sockets. 
A rifle boomed from a roof. The shot lanced down, splashing against Kell's armored leg and 
spraying red across the ground. Caston and Drumar hustled into cover against the rusted frame 
of a luxury vehicle. 
"Again with the leg!" Kell groaned, falling obediently to his paint-round-stained knee and 
crawling towards the rest of his squad. 
"You call that a kill shot, Private Berry?" growled Sergeant Bayton across the open channel. 
"Sorry, Sarge," Berry replied from the roof. The rifle boomed again, missing Kell by a meter 
and change. Caston tracked the shot and caught the muzzle of the rifle disappearing back over 
a roof's edge. His HUD bracketed Berry's armored outline through the concrete. 
"Tagged and locked," Caston said, grinning. "Sorry, Berry." 
"Well done, Private Gage," Sergeant Bayton said. A rifle bolt clacked. "Please feel free to 
stand up and receive my congratulations." 
"Holy hell, Gage," said Kell, finally reaching them. "That's fourteen kills today. Save some for 
the rest of us." 
Behind him, Marc turned away, his expression hidden by his faceplate. 
Two days had passed since they arrived. Caston had waited for Marc to report him as 
dangerous and unbalanced. The moment had never come, and Caston had recovered from his 
initial embarrassment. They'd run a dozen war games since yesterday, and he'd topped the 
charts nearly every time. 
Killing the overlord had saved him. He'd finally met the enemy face to face and taken his 
shot. The hallway had been a fluke; he'd never hesitate again, never be weak again. The 
universe swarmed with the enemies and traitors of humanity, and he was a marine, paid to kill 
them. 
Life was good. 
"Sarge, I don't get it," Kell said. "Why do we have to pretend we're hunting down fake 
rebels when there are real zerg all over the planet?" 
"Because they're feral, Private," said temporary rebel commander Bayton. "They're 
dangerous, but disorganized. No real challenge." 
"And this is?" Kell said, glancing around the edge of cover— 
The sergeant's shot splattered against his faceplate, and Kell went down. The sergeant had 
the sun behind him. Caston couldn't see a thing. 
"Ow," groaned Kell from the ground. "Killed by amateur rebels. My shame is endless." 
"Amateur!" Vallen said over the channel, from his hidden sniper's nest. "How dare you!" 
"Right," said Hanna. "We're hardened rebel elites, thanks." 
"Exactly," Vallen continued. "We don't shave or bathe. We 'liberate' civilian settlements by 
setting them on fire." 
"According to propaganda, that's what we do," Hanna growled. "But actually, we're 
displaced settlers with legitimate patriotic concerns—" 
"Just finished a scan," Dax interrupted. He'd stayed behind to get the base systems up and 
running, and the radio static flattened his dull monotone still further. "All clear." 
"Don't sound so disappointed, Private," Sergeant Bayton said. 
"That's just how he talks since the recruiters panned his brain flat, Sarge," Hanna said. 
"We're lucky he has a soon-to-be-court-martialed-for-smartassery private to speak up for 
him, then." 
"Just trying to sound like a rebel," Hanna said cheerfully. 
"You're not cursing enough," Vallen said. 
"Hold on," Kell said. "If I'm a rebel, I get to curse, set things on fire, and stop bathing? I'm on 
the wrong team." 
"They don't allow you to marry your sister," Vallen said. 
"Rebel scum!" 
"Privates Saul and Wolfe," Bayton said, "would you kindly stop horsing around and fall back 
south towards me?" 
Caston narrowed his eyes, peering through the burnt and rusted metal. The sergeant was a 
canny son of a bitch. Any tip about where he was had to be a trap... 
He groaned. "You've moved behind us, haven't you?" 
"Damnation," said Sergeant Bayton, rising above the edge of a roof with his rifle aimed. 
"The private has seen through my clever ruse. I shall retire in disgrace. Where would you like 
your kill shots?" 
"Incoming zerg," said Dax from the base, as if commenting on the weather. 
Static hissed in the squad channel's silence. 
"Is this part of the exercise, Sarge?" Berry said. 
"Nope," Sergeant Bayton said calmly. "Fall back to the academy on the double, marines. 
Where, Private Damen?" 
"The sensors report a big zerg to the south. I'm trying to..." 
The marines helped each other up and hustled. Dax exhaled directly into his helmet mike, 
and the marines winced in unison. 
"Found it. Sorry, Sarge. No threat. It's just an overlord." 
I found a worker and called to it. It did not listen. Madness infects the We. Madness infects me. 
With individuality comes insanity. 
I gathered my will. It struggled. It obeyed. It became a nest for the We. 
My We. 
I am not the Overmind. I am not the Kerrigan. I am not a gathered-mind. My will is limited. 
To hold one is pain. To hold more is agony. To hold many is impossible. 
To punish the not-We, I must be careful. 
From the larvae, I called volatile ones. I told them to sleep, and they slept. 
I gathered their bodies into myself. 
From the larvae, I called the winged ones. I hold them with my will. Agony. 
They will wait. 
They must wait. 
I will gather the attention of the not-We. I will not listen to the madness, to the— 
you are alone you are weak your world is dead you are dead all is dead 
I will not listen to the madness! 
... 
The winged ones will wait. 
They must wait. 
"Damnedest thing," Sergeant Bayton said, resting his armor's gauntlets on the railing with a 
faint clink. "Try again." 
Caston did. Aiming the rifle was harder with everyone watching, but the overlord was big 
enough to eclipse the skyscrapers behind it. He'd once shot a decipede off a fence during a 
sandstorm. 
He fired at the overlord. And missed. 
"Leaping hell," said Kell. "I saw it that time. It dodged the damn bullet. How did it do that?" 
"It must know when we're about to fire, and then it—" 
"Bullshit," said Hanna. "Overlords aren't that smart." 
The spacious observation deck was getting crowded, especially since all of the marines were 
still in their suits. Corporal Sawn, their medic and pilot, had come up as well. Almost painfully 
thin, she stood in a distant corner, watching the overlord with grim gray eyes. 
"Are they always that big, Sarge?" said Kell. 
"Almost. This one's seen a few fights, too. Look at that scarring." 
Everyone leaned forward. Night was falling over Tarsonis. Jagged fingers of light slipped out 
of the city square, filling the observation deck with long shadows. 
"None of the studies I've ever read talked about them dodging bullets," Berry said, and the 
usual cheer was gone from his voice. Caston was the only one who noticed. Berry sounding 
worried was like Dax sounding anything. It was unnatural. 
"This," said Hanna, lighting up another one of Vallen's favorite cigars, "is some top-secret 
shit. I guarantee it. Some escapee from a Confederate holding cell." 
"Yes," Vallen said, casually reaching over, pinched the cigar out of her mouth with 
mechanical fingers and flicked it out the window. "An ingenious war machine. It approaches the 
enemy and floats around them." 
"Yeah, that is weird," Kell said. "Of all the interesting things to circle on this rock, why us?" 
Caston involuntarily glanced at Marc. The marine was already looking at him, asking a silent 
question. Caston turned away, his jaw aching from the pressure of his gritted teeth. No, he 
wasn't going to tell the squad. There was nothing to tell. To say that the green-eyed overlord 
had come here because he had killed the purple-eyed one was to admit that the overlord 
remembered him. That the mindless beast had a mind. 
 The overlord descended into relative safety behind the wall of burnt-out hulks. Caston laid 
the FN92 against a wall and drew his C-14. 
Corporal Sawn seemed to reach a decision, and strode up to Bayton's side, speaking in 
whispered bursts that Caston could barely hear. 
"... get out... be more... right now." 
Bayton looked down, thinking, then responded, nearly as quietly: "Either the thing isn't a 
threat, or it's too late to run. We're safer here." 
Sawn didn't argue. She shrugged and returned to her corner. 
Gripping the C-14 so hard that his fingers ached inside the suit's gauntlets, Caston came to a 
decision. 
"We should go out there. Hunt it down and kill it." 
Everyone looked at him like he'd suggested they go outside naked. 
"It's dark out there," Kell said, as if he couldn't see. 
"It doesn't matter. Overlords can carry drones. Drones can start hives. We need to kill it 
before it attacks." 
The tension stretched across the wide room like a web, tight and quivering. 
"You're right," Kell said gravely. "Let's do a practice run." 
He hunched over, dangling his suited arms beneath his body, and made weak pinching 
motions. Step by lumbering step, he approached Caston. 
"Oooooh. Float float. Shoot me before I land on you. Pinch pinch." 
Hanna's snicker was louder in Caston's ears than it actually was. He shoved Kell to the floor 
with a rattling crash and pointed out the window. 
"Idiot! Do you see it? That's not a joke! That's the zerg out there!" 
"I can't really see anything from the ground." 
The rest of the marines laughed, except for Bayton, whose face resembled a thundercloud 
above a dark mountain, and Corporal Sawn, who didn't appear to have smiled in her entire life. 
"The zerg aren't individuals, Caston," Berry said, smiling. "Overlords relay orders; they don't 
give them. Without a leader, they go crazy. It probably wandered from one of the lesser hives in 
Ewen Park." 
"That's not madness," Caston insisted. "That thing is stalking us!" 
Smiles faltered around the room as they realized that Caston might not be joking. Sergeant 
Bayton dropped his hand on Caston's shoulder. 
"Calm down, Private," he muttered. "You're making a damn scene." 
Berry didn't notice. He probably thought he was helping. "Overlords don't hunt, actually. 
Not even their predecessors did. The gargantis proximae were semi-intelligent herbivores 
before their race was infested by the zerg. Communal, with a language based on psionics, 
tentacle manipulation, and color. Oh, and a little-known fact," Berry beamed. "They mourned." 
"Mourned," Caston said dully, glancing between the zerg threat and the clearly insane 
private. 
"Oh yes," Berry said happily. "They reportedly could live for centuries, but when one of 
them died, they all turned a 'sky-blue' color. Given a sky with the right amount of oxygen and 
nitrogen, of course. Anyway! Now that this one's free of the Swarm, it's feral, but harmless." 
Caston glanced at the sergeant. There was an order implicit on Bayton's face, and it was 
"Shut up, Private Gage." 
He turned to watch the overlord continue its circuit of the outer academy grounds, and 
blinked. It was coming towards them, rising over the shards of a hotel tower like a purple 
moon. The marines chuckled, and a few raised their C-14s for some target practice. The mood 
gratefully returned to the cycle of gentle mockery that was the status quo within Meatbag 
Squadron. 
Something flashed through the room, something invisible, intangible, and focused. Caston 
staggered. So did Berry and Vallen, though they recovered separately, shaking their heads. No 
one else had noticed a thing. 
It hadn't been the word now. It had been the essence of now, hurled with all the strength of 
an order. And it had come from the direction of the overlord. 
It raised its head, fixing him with those lambent green eyes. It knew him. 
Caston hissed through his teeth. Imagined that he was right. That Green Eyes had dropped a 
drone somewhere, and that the drone had created a hive. What if the overlord knew that 
everyone would come up and watch him... it circle around the academy? 
And why would it approach now unless it was trying to draw attention to itself...? 
Caston spun around just before a screeching cluster of mutalisks swooped down, their 
insectile bodies bobbing eagerly beneath their leathery wings. Whipping their tails forward, 
they disgorged a wave of ravenous parasites at precisely the same time. 
Shards of neosteel and bundles of glaive wurms ricocheted across the observation deck. 
Caston screamed. Razor-sharp fragments of metal sparked off his breastplate, and a chunk 
of the armor on his shoulder was simply gone. Gasping for air, he staggered back, taking in the 
carnage around him. Marc had fallen to his knees, clawing at his helmet with metal fingers as 
red steam poured from the place where his face had been. Berry didn't even have a head 
anymore. None of them had even put down their— 
"Put down your! Goddamn! Faceplate! And shoot! Private!" Sergeant Bayton roared, 
shaking him by his suit's collar. 
Caston seized hold of the orders gratefully. He shut his faceplate and glanced over his 
shoulder for the overlord. It was gone. 
I no longer hold the winged ones with my will. 
I rise into the clouds. I am heavy with the weight of the dead volatile ones. 
The curve of the world is below. The cold place is above. I want to float up. 
I do not want to do this. 
I want to do this. 
I am only One. The not-We must know fear. Must know madness. He must know fear and 
madness. 
There must be punishment. 
The deafening chatter of C-14 fire shook the floor of the observation deck and bounced off 
the surrounding skyscrapers. A gaping wound exploded in a mutalisk's chest, and it dropped 
from sight. Another dipped into Caston's stream of fire and pinwheeled away toward the 
distant ground. 
The remaining two shuddered suddenly, and turned their acidic projectiles on each other, 
hissing and screaming. The remainder of Meatbag Squad focused their fire on the feral 
mutalisks. The creatures fell apart in a shower of wet flesh. 
Caston's rifle clicked empty. The zero on his HUD flashed at him for several seconds before 
he realized what it meant, and reloaded. 
The neosteel floor was a melted ruin of acid scars and dying wurms. Marc had fallen 
forward, and lay with his head twisted to the side. Nothing was left inside except for red and 
bone, but in his mind, Caston still felt the weight of that calm, sad gaze. 
He holstered his C-14 and went for Kell, fist cocking back. 
Without breaking stride, Sergeant Bayton slammed into him, pushing him back against the 
wall. 
"This is not happening, Private!" 
"I tried to warn them, and he made jokes. And they're goddamn dead!" 
"Yeah, they are," Bayton said, his visor flicking open. Muscles leapt in his neck and jaw. "So 
look at him. How do you think he feels about that now?" 
Caston looked at Kell, standing silently over the bodies of Marc and Berry. He looked away. 
"Right, marines. This is what is going to happen. We are going to make our way to Corporal 
Sawn's dropship. We are going to leave. And we are going to do both with all speed." 
"Screw that, Sarge," Hanna said, raising her visor and spitting. "We're going to hunt down 
that overlord." 
"Oh, I'm sorry," said Sergeant Bayton. "You must be new. That last thing I said was what we 
refer to in the Marine Corps as a goddamn order. Now—" 

