me work for your establishment.”
He liked it when people begged. “Fine then,” he answered, standing to his feet. Brouchard
crushed out his cigar next to other butts in the overflowing ashtray and began giving her
instructions.
“Come with me. I’ll show you where you’ll sleep, and you can start work immediately. I’ll
introduce you to Flora, who will train you on what’s to be done.”
Suzette gasped. “You wish me to start now?”
“Yes,” he sneered. “Do you want the job or not?”
“Yes, of course,” she said, “but I thought I would have time to return to the charity house
and retrieve my belongings.”
He looked at her in disbelief. “And what might those things be? Whatever they are, you can
get them another time.”
Afraid to disagree, lest he change his mind, Suzette followed behind him like an obedient,
frightened puppy dog. Once again, her life had turned upside down, and she hadn’t been given
the opportunity to thank Sister Mary for her kindness. However, as she walked through the site
following Monsieur Brouchard, she began to wonder if she would be as grateful a week from
now.
The facilities were stifling hot from the rising steam of large washing bins on the lower
floor. Suzette glanced at the working women as she passed by their stations. No one was talking
in front of the manager, and there were only a few individuals who raised their eyes in her
direction.
The air was moist and hot and filled with odors that irritated Suzette’s nose. Tiny beads of
sweat formed on her forehead as Monsieur Brouchard escorted her through the facility and up a
narrow staircase to the second floor. Once upon the landing, he flung open a wooden door to a
small, dark room. Inside were four cots pushed up against the wall.
“The one on your right is yours. The others are taken already. A bath chamber is down the
hall on the left.”
Suzette stared at the cramped quarters and the dirty mattress on wooden slats with a wool
blanket and no pillow. “Do you have much in the way of clothes, shoes, personal belongings to
get?”
“No sir. I’m afraid very little is back at the charity.”
“Well, I suggest you retrieve what you do have when you can. Often time we have clothes
that are unclaimed, and you can sort through the leftovers if you need anything. You won’t need
to dress in your evening gown to get the work done here!” His condescending laugh filled the
hallway. “As you can see, most women around here strip so they can handle the heat.” His
lecherous behavior became apparent as he added, “And I don’t mind the show.”
He headed back and spewed out an order. “Follow me, and I’ll introduce you to Flora.”
They headed downstairs, and Suzette lagged behind him until they reached a large pile of
dirty linens. Upon closer inspection, Suzette noticed blood and other stains. The stench turned
her stomach.
“This is where we sort the linens for our customers. You will serve the smaller accounts,
and I have one in particular that will suit you just fine.” He noticed her scrunched-up face over
the odors. “Yes, dirty laundry stinks. What did you expect, perfume?” He turned and snarled
orders at Flora. “Show her what to do.” As he walked away with a smirk on his face, Suzette
struggled already with growing contempt for her new boss.
She looked at Flora. “Welcome to hell,” she said. “Come here, and I’ll show you what to
do.”
Chapter Five
Suzette spent her first night on a lumpy cot with a thin, wool blanket. Sleep quickly
claimed her exhausted body. When she woke the next morning at 5 a.m., her back and feet
ached.
“You best get up if you want to keep working here, dearie,” Flora warned. “Monsieur
Bouchard will dock your pay, if you’re not at your station.”
Her work companion was at least kind, though Suzette thought her a bit abrupt in her
mannerisms. She looked about forty years old, but Suzette couldn’t believe it when Flora told
her that she was only thirty. There was no refinement about her whatsoever. Her manner and
features conveyed hardness and premature aging from years of work.
“Yes, of course,” Suzette moaned. She heard soft laughter from another woman.
“Welcome to the life of a laundress!” she laughed. “Wait until you start hauling your first
basket of laundry down the street. You’ll wonder what the hell you’ve gotten yourself into.”
Without further word, the women whose names she didn’t know, giggled and left the room.
Suzette slipped on her dress over her undergarments and wandered down the hall to the bath
chamber. It was occupied, so she stood in the hallway until the door opened and another woman
appeared.
“You must be the new one,” she grumbled. She lowered her gaze and pushed pass Suzette.
Everyone appeared miserable.
Suzette quickly splashed water in her face, and tried to brush the tangles from her hair. She
pinned her long strands upon her head, away from her face, so it would be cooler in the heat of
the washroom. Afterward, she ran downstairs to meet Flora, who she found sorting and tagging
the incoming sheets.
She learned that once they sorted through the piles of dirty laundry from hospitals, clinics,
and other establishments, other workers took them to the vats where they washed and dried the
linens. Afterward, the sheets were returned to Flora and Suzette to fold and deliver back to the
clients.
“There’s a basket of folded and clean linens over there by the wall,” she announced,
pointing her finger to a white stack a few feet away. “Brouchard wants you to deliver them to
the Chabanais immediately.”
“Now?” she questioned, appalled at the timing. “It’s only five in the morning. Will the
customer even be awake?”
Flora laughed. “Oh, yes, I’m sure someone will answer the door.”
“Chabanais? I don’t know what that is or where it’s located.”
As soon as the words left her lips, she could feel the manager’s menacing presence behind
her. Suzette clamped shut her mouth. When she felt his hot breath touching the back of her
neck, she turned around to face his grotesque appearance. He looked no better in the morning
than he had the day before.
“It’s the brothel at 12 Rue Chabanais. You can’t miss it. There’s a sign right outside the
door.”
Suzette’s eyes widened. Brouchard laughed.
“What, you’ve never been to the door of a brothel before?” He enjoyed every minute of
taunting his naïve, young worker and walked off sporting a sly grin.
Flora stood up from her stooped posture. “He’s the most disgusting man I’ve ever known,”
she hissed, in his direction. “And you wonder why we drink alcohol in the afternoon on the job.
It’s because of his asinine attitude.” She looked at Suzette and encouraged her to leave. “You
better go now, or he’ll come back screaming at you wondering why you haven’t left.”
Suzette walked over to the basket filled to the brim with clean sheets and pillowcases. She
bent over and attempted to lift the basket, but failed to do so her first attempt. Flora watched her
struggle, bending her back, and then walked over to her side.
“Here...do it like this.” She bent her knees and grabbed the two side handles of the wicker
basket. When she stood upright, she swung the load until it landed upon her right hip. “Carry it
like this. Just think of it like a child on your hip, and you’ll get the hang of it. It helps defray the
weight.”
After Flora set it down on the floor, Suzette took hold of the basket and did the same. She
grimaced in discomfort. “How far is the Chabanais?”
“About two miles. Go out the door, turn to your right, and follow the street until you come
to Rue Chabanais. When you reach the avenue, the brothel is on the left toward the very end of
the street.”
Flora returned to her duties, picked up another dirty sheet, and tagged it for washing.
Suzette heaved a deep sigh and went out the door toting her first basket of laundry. The heavy
load challenged her strength, but she felt relieved that she was leaving the washhouse for a
while. As soon as she walked out the door, the cold morning air accosted her thin dress. She had
no shawl for her shoulders.
The wicker basket gouged into her hip, and the longer she carried it, the heavier it became.
The weight pressed upon her waist, and every few blocks, she needed to stop, put the basket
down, and rest. If Brouchard witnessed her weakness, she knew she’d never keep the job. Why
he didn’t deliver the laundry by cart was beyond her understanding, but she often saw women
throughout the streets carrying large laundry baskets and sacks back and forth without a second
thought. Once again, her sheltered life had turned into a painful lesson in reality.
Finally, after a long, arduous trek, her eyes fell upon a conspicuous sign above the entrance,
WELCOME TO THE CHABANAIS. Thinking that it must at least be six o’clock by now, she
wondered if anyone would be awake. As she approached the front door, a befuddled expression
came across her face. The entrance looked like a cave.
She giggled at the absurdity of the situation. There she stood, in front of a brothel, with a
basket of laundry on her sore hip at six o’clock in the morning. It was the last place in the world
Suzette could have imagined herself weeks ago. Thankfully, Rue Chabanais was not a main
thoroughfare, and traffic was light in the early morning hours.
She examined the strange wooden door before grabbing the brass knocker. Suzette gave it a
few strikes, dropping it against the metal plate with a clang. A few moments passed with no
answer, so she tapped it again, only much louder the second time. The brass knocker dropped,
and suddenly a small panel in the center of the upper door slid open. Startled, she stepped back
and heard a voice but saw no face. We don’t receive customers until seven o’clock at night. Come back then,” snapped a
grumpy female, slamming the opening shut.
“But I’m here with the laundry,” yelled Suzette.
The small panel opened again, and a pair of beautiful hazel eyes, with long lashes, peered at
Suzette. “Laundry? Good gracious, woman, deliver it to the back door.”
“Where?”
“Down the side alley,” she spat, slamming the panel shut again.
Suzette glanced to her right and saw an alleyway. She turned the corner and proceeded to
walk down the narrow, dark passage. Her nose caught the smell of urine, and a homeless
drunkard lay asleep by a door with an empty bottle in his hand.
Carefully, she stepped around his snoring body and stood in front of a doorway with the
name CHABANAIS etched on a small metal plaque attached to the door. She rapped with her
knuckles while balancing the full laundry basket on her hip. If she didn’t put it down soon, she
was sure it was going to dump on the head of the drunk that lay at her feet. Then she’d be in real
trouble.
With no immediate answer, she knocked again, until the door finally flung open revealing a
woman clad in a silken black robe. A cigarette dangled between her plump red lips.
“Come in,” she grumbled, in a raspy voice. Suzette entered into a back room adjacent to a
kitchen area and immediately released her burden by dropping the basket at her feet with a thud.
“Is there anywhere in particular you want these linens?” Her eyes darted around at her
surroundings, and she spotted a small hallway beyond the woman standing in front of her.
Suzette’s curiosity piqued at the beautiful sight that lay beyond.
The woman took a drag on her cigarette, then took it from her lips and blew the smoke into
Suzette’s face, causing her to wince.
“You’re new. I can tell. Where’s the other one?”
“The other one?” Suzette responded, still trying to clear her lungs from the irritating smoke.
“Yes, the other one. An old drunk who knew exactly what to do with the basket of linens.”
She gave Suzette the once over and quipped sarcastically, “It’s apparent you haven’t a clue what
to do.”
Ridiculed and exasperated from the walk, Suzette snapped back. “Can you just tell me
where they go?”
“Nadine, leave the girl alone.”
The deep, stern voice caught Suzette off guard, and her eyes met a tall, beautiful woman
dressed in a dark blue brocade gown standing in the kitchen entrance. Her brown upswept hair,
flawless features, and dark eyes exuded power.
“Can’t you tell she’s new? Don’t make her feel like a fool.”
“Fine! You deal with her then,” she said, spinning around and heading out the doorway.
The mistress’s face turned dark as she watched her employee leave the kitchen. When they
were alone, she returned her attention to Suzette, who stood motionless as she eyed her from top
to bottom.
“I’m Madame Laurent, the owner of this brothel.” She paused for a moment and raised one
eyebrow. “And you might be?”
Suzette, struck by the velvet coolness in the tone of her voice, nervously blurted out her
name as she curtsied. “Suzette, Madame. My name is Suzette Rousseau.”
“Good Lord, girl. There’s no need to curtsy to me.” Astonished by her visitor’s formalities,
Madame Laurent looked more closely, studying the young girl’s regal face. “You appear much
too pretty to be working in a sweatshop.” Scrutinizing her once again, she finally gave her
instructions regarding the laundry. “Follow me, and I’ll show you where we keep our linens.”
Suzette picked up the basket and followed. She watched her saunter down a long, carpeted
hallway, while her hips swayed back and forth. Her deep blue satin gown trailed behind, and
Suzette sighed with longing at the elegant dress. The woman’s movements were poised and
graceful.
While she was gawking at her clothes, it dawned on her that she was inside a brothel. Her
poor, dear father would be horrified over her whereabouts, and a blush burst up her neck as she
wondered what went on behind closed doors.
They arrived in front of a long line of closets built into the hallway wall and stopped.
Madame Laurent opened one door and showed Suzette the interior.
“We keep our linens here. You can place what you have in the basket on the shelves. I
expect the sheets to be arranged in a neat and orderly manner.” The mistress noticed Suzette’s
flushed face, and a hint of amusement sparkled in her dark eyes.
“I’m afraid there’s a basket waiting for you to take back. You are to leave the basket you
empty each day, then pick up the basket filled with dirty laundry for return to the washhouse.”
She added in a low, sultry voice, “Our customers come every night, so every day we have sheets
to wash.”
Suzette glanced away.
Madame Laurent sensed her teasing had gone far enough and decided to end the
conversation abruptly. “I’ll leave you to your duties. You may let yourself out the way you
entered.”
“Thank you, Madame,” she answered sheepishly.
Suzette watched the woman depart and went about her job. Neatly, she lined up the pristine
white linens, left the empty basket, and picked up the one filled with dirty sheets. With a sigh of
relief, she retreated to the back door. Her feet stepped over the drunk on the stoop and quickly
left the alley carrying another load on her sore hip.
The trek back to the washhouse was excruciating. She still wore the same floppy shoes
stuffed with paper in the toes and her feet hurt. Sweat beaded on her forehead as she struggled
with the load. After her return, Flora said little, except to give her instructions on what to do
with the sheets she had hauled from the Chabanais. The routine had begun, and Suzette tried to
accept her new position in life. It wouldn’t be easy.
Chapter Six
The weeks passed, and Suzette’s depression deepened as she toiled in the heat and stench,
learning the life of a laundress. Daily her boring schedule repeated itself, starting with tiring
trips back and forth to the Chabanais. She hauled the laundry in all sorts of weather conditions.
It made no difference to Monsieur Brouchard whether it was sunshine or rain; the items had to
be delivered. If it rained, it was her responsibility to make sure the load did not get wet during
the two-mile trek. She usually arrived looking like a drowned rat. Nevertheless, Suzette
faithfully covered her basket so that it would arrive dry.
Every morning, Suzette woke from a restless sleep on a lumpy mattress. Flora possessed an
internal clock after years of toiling and would wake Suzette at four-thirty. With only a half hour
to freshen for the day and barely time to take a bath, Suzette was required to be dressed and at
her work station by five “come hell or high water,” as Brouchard so aptly put it.
After weeks of toiling back and forth and little interaction with anyone at the brothel,
Brouchard suddenly announced that she could make her delivery to the Chabanais an hour later.
Suzette did not question the change, but wondered if Madame Laurent had somehow found pity
on her poor soul and requested a later time. Suzette was thankful nonetheless.
When seven o’clock arrived, she would throw her basket of laundry on her hardened hip
and make the trek to the Chabanais. As she had done countless times before, she entered
through the back door, proceeded to the linen cabinet, and neatly restocked the sheets. Because
her visits were early in the morning, she rarely encountered any prostitutes, except Nadine who
was the rude woman she met the first day. Madame Laurent rarely said a word when their paths
crossed, except to glide her eyes up and down her petite frame. It made Suzette feel
uncomfortable.
On her return from the Chabanais, she hauled the dirty linens back to the washhouse. Her
hips had become accustomed to carrying the weight, and her arms grew stronger each day from
hauling the baskets. It was easy for her to pick up the heavy linens with little effort.
As spring gave way to summer, conditions worsened in the washhouse. Between the hot air
outside and the sweltering steam inside, there were days Suzette felt dizzy from the heat. She
continued to push herself in fear of finding displeasure in Brouchard’s eyes.
Flora was instructed to teach Suzette washing of the linens, so her duties expanded beyond
folding and delivery. It was just more work to accomplish in the same amount of time, and
Suzette could barely keep up with the demands.
The Chabanais and other clients kept her busy. When she sorted the laundry from the
Chabanais, taunting thoughts plagued her mind about what transpired behind closed doors.
Suzette knew little of the intimate ways of men and women. Her father never spoke of such
matters, and her mother passed away too early to teach her anything about sex.
During her days of hard labor, Suzette learned that workers who ironed clothes possessed
the better paying jobs. Experienced laundresses worked on high-end clothing such as shirts,
pants, bonnets, and dresses. In addition, the washhouse employed a variety of seamstresses and
lace makers, who repaired clothing.
Brouchard swore to her face he would never trust her with such delicacies and seemed
content watching her hike back and forth each day hauling loads of sheets. His ill-gotten
pleasure irritated Suzette. She decided long ago that if her life were relegated to a washhouse
forever, she would work her way up to a higher paying position—come hell or high water.
Suzette’s hands were dry and cracked from the lye poured into the steaming water to
whiten sheets. She often felt dirty, tired, and ugly. Her hips carried a continuous bruise from
hauling the heavy baskets. To lessen the pain, she learned to alternate hips each week to give
the other time to heal. The routine of her employment turned into an endless, degrading cycle.
Her pittance of three francs per day barely purchased enough food to eat. She lost weight
from her already petite frame, due to the strenuous physical demands and smaller portions of
nourishment. Thirty centimes would buy a piece of bread, but if she wished for a piece of meat,
it would cost two francs more at the café. Her daily diet consisted of soup and bread, but when
she could afford to do so, she would splurge on cuts of beef or mutton.
Workers were allowed short breaks for lunch and dinner. Not everyone lived at the
washhouse. The majority, who were married or made more money, lived in residences
elsewhere. Only the lower-end employees, such as herself and Flora, kept residence in the small
room, which began to feel more like a prison house than a comfortable place to live. The
Daughters of Charity, as sparse as the dormitory had been, provided far more comfort.
Unable to save enough for clothing or shoes, she continued to wear the same worn-out
cotton day dress and oversized shoes until they were on the verge of falling apart. She learned
to stuff strips of old rags into the toes to make up for the excess size, after the paper she had
used earlier fell apart.
Over the weeks, Suzette found the women of the washhouse crude in many ways but not
necessarily mean. Most had worked there for years, obviously accepting their lot in life and
conditions of poverty better than what the streets offered. As she feared, the reputation of
laundresses lay low in the minds of men, especially during hot, sweltering days when the doors
and windows were flung wide open. The women stripped and worked thinly clad to escape the
scorching heat and avoid dehydration, which could lead to fainting.
Men, on the other hand, took advantage of the scene and stood in the open doorways
watching bare-fleshed women bend over vats. The views, of course, from the front and back
would burst a blush on any virgin’s cheeks. Brouchard enjoyed the scene immensely, and he did
not attempt to discourage the curious onlookers who came daily for the show of naked flesh.
To Suzette’s surprise, most of the women were alcoholics, drinking low-grade wine during
work each day, which was purchased and supplied by the owner. It was considered a benefit of
the job, so they took advantage of the free drinks to relieve the stress of everyday life in the
washroom.
Suzette shunned the practice, thinking it self-defeating, and refused to partake in the amble
spirits of canteens strategically placed throughout the workspace. However, finding a clean
glass of water proved to be a chore. Some days the heat and lack of hydration made her feel
sick. She would succumb to a small amount of alcohol to quench her thirst when nothing else
was available, but she despised the taste of cheap wine.
Her only comforts were the quiet evenings she found by herself as she lay on her cot. In her
distress, she found prayer necessary to seek solace from a higher power. She was still angry
with God for taking her father, but she tried to forgive Him, and she prayed for mercy and grace
for her defiant attitude.
The one memory she clung to for as long as faith allowed happened to be the folded letter
that she had kept from her jewelry box. As delicately as she did many nights before, she
unfolded the parchment, read the words, and returned it once again to its new hiding place
within her purse. Of course, there was nothing of value in her purse any longer except a piece of
paper, a rosary missing a few beads, pictures of her parents, and a few francs to show for her
hard labor.
Suzette’s reading of the letter gradually lessened as the weeks turned into months. Like
dreams fade when one awakes, so did the words on the page. They held no meaning or
encouragement, and Suzette finally came to a place where she didn’t wish to feed her fanciful
dreams any further. She did not have the strength to destroy the letter, but neither did she desire
to read it again. It finally found a resting place of neglect in the bottom of her purse after the
third month of her life as a laundress.
Her only reprieve was the Chabanais. The poverty and stench gave way when she entered
through the brothel doors. As soon as she stepped inside, she inhaled the scent of perfumed air
and held it in her lungs as long as she could retain it in order to replace the putrid smells of the
washhouse.
One day as she made her way to the linen closet, Suzette walked past the opulent parlor.
Her eyes always glanced inside, but she never stopped. Like a little mouse, she would scurry
past the entrance, catching glimpses of red settees, gold-gilded furniture, ornate rugs, mirrors,
and palm plants. She refused to linger and stare for fear of getting in trouble.
After returning all of the linens to the cupboard in a neat stack, she picked up the full basket
of dirty laundry and flung it on her hip. She quickly sprinted down the hallway, but failed to
watch her step. The toe of her foot caught on the edge of an area rug. Suzette stumbled and
dropped the basket. She gasped when it landed full-force at the parlor entrance, strewing dirty
laundry across the floor. Quickly, she lowered herself to her knees and grabbed the linens
stuffing them into the basket. She bit her lower lip, as she glanced at the scene teasing her from
the corner of her vision. Curious, she stopped and slowly turned her head to look inside the
glorious room. Like a little girl in a candy shop, her eyes grew wide in astonishment.
“Like what you see?”
The voice of Madame Laurent startled her, and she jumped to her feet. “Oh, Madame, I’m
sorry. I tripped, and everything went flying. I apologize.”
Suzette grabbed the last piece of laundry and shoved it in the basket as quickly as possible.
She stood to her feet and hurled the basket upon her hip and darted for the door. Madame
Laurent reached out and grabbed her arm, preventing her departure.
“Do you wish a tour?”
She wanted to see, but feared accepting such a daring invitation. Suzette hesitated, then
slowly turned and faced Madame Laurent.
“It looks quite beautiful, Madame, but I’m sure Monsieur Brouchard would be quite angry
should he find out. I don’t want to lose my job.”
“To hell with Monsieur Brouchard,” she said, empathically. “Put the basket down and
follow me.” The mistress of the house turned around and walked into the parlor, fully expecting
her visitor to comply with her wishes.
Suzette dropped the basket at her feet with a thud and gave her curiosity free reign. She
stepped cautiously through the doorway. Once inside the forbidden world, Suzette stopped. The
beauty of the ornate room took her breath away, and Suzette basked in the enthralling
atmosphere of opulence.
Madame Laurent smiled at her reaction and motioned her to a red velvet settee. She sat
down and patted the seat next to her.
“Come sit with me, Suzette. Rest a moment and take a look around.”
Suzette walked over to Madame Laurent and slowly lowered herself onto the soft,
cushioned seat. She hadn’t felt such comfort since her father’s passing, and the touch of softness
to her tired body brought tears to her eyes.
Madame Laurent said nothing. She gave Suzette adequate time to observe the surroundings,
while she studied the young lady closely. Suzette’s complexion, albeit dirty, was flawless. Her
auburn hair displayed a slight natural curl even though it was piled high on top of her head in
messy tousles. Her body was far too thin, but she was certain that was only from too much hard
work and poor nutrition.
It was easy to imagine Suzette with makeup to accentuate her features and elegant lotions
to smooth her rough skin. With a few dabs of enticing perfume to replace her obvious body
odor, the young lady would be quite the attraction in her establishment. She needed a girl for the
Louis XV Chambre to serve her aristocrats and rich businessmen. Suzette would fill the part
perfectly—after a little makeover and training, of course. Her beautiful features and regal look
would bring a high price.
Madame Laurent reached over and tenderly picked up Suzette’s hand and held it in her
own. She turned it back and forth examining the poor condition of her skin.
“My word, child, don’t you have any cream for your delicate hands?”
Embarrassed, Suzette wanted to pull her hand away, but feared to spurn her touch. “I’m
sorry, Madame, but I barely make enough for a good meal. Cream, I’m afraid, is a luxury I
cannot afford.”
“How did you come to choose the life of a laundress, Suzette? You seem intelligent and
well bred,” she inquired, after releasing her hand.
Suzette’s wounded heart, still tender with grief, skipped a beat. For months, she had
consciously chosen not to think of her father’s death. In reality, there was no time to grieve
either. The washhouse consumed her life, and each night she was too tired to think of anything
except sleep.
“My father passed away four months ago.” She paused for a moment letting out a sigh and
then continued. “I didn’t know, but he was deeply in debt. His estate was sold to pay the
creditors.”
“Well, I’m sorry to hear that. Am I to assume that you have no other family or friends to
care for you?”
“No, Madame, I do not. I stayed with the Daughters of Charity for a while until they helped
me find the position at the washhouse.”
Suzette felt increasingly uncomfortable with time slipping by and begged to leave. “I need
to be going. Brouchard will wonder why I have not returned.” Suzette couldn’t bear the thought
of him reprimanding her over a late arrival.
“Not yet, Suzette,” she sternly replied. Madame Laurent looked into Suzette’s eyes, and her
serious gaze kept Suzette motionless in her seat. “I have a proposition for you, my dear.”
Suzette swallowed a lump in her throat. “A proposition?” she repeated, wondering what she
could possibly mean.
“I need a girl for my Louis XV Chambre.” She softened her tone and conveyed her pride in
her establishment. “This is no ordinary brothel, Suzette. I only cater to one type of clientele—
the rich. The men who frequent my doors are aristocrats and royalty.”
A prideful twinkle radiated from the Madame’s eyes over her successful business.
“If you come to work for me, I can offer you a life of luxury. You’ll be well fed, clothed,
and housed in quarters that are a thousand times better than the filth you live in now. Instead of
working eighteen hours a day, you’ll only work four hours each night. You will be given one
day off every week to do as you please.”
Madame Laurent paused, giving Suzette a moment to consider everything she offered. It
was obvious by the wide-eyed look on the young girl’s face that she was in shock.
“I take proper care of my employees, Suzette. I pay fifteen francs per night. With that type
of income, you can buy as many new dresses as you please and all the hand cream you’ll ever
need.” Madame Laurent’s eyes travelled over the worn-out cotton fabric dress. “You are a
beautiful young girl, and I hate to see you wither away in the filth of a washhouse.”
She waved her arm pointing out the room gilded in gold, with hanging electric lights,
potted palm plants, red velvet settees, and mirrors on the walls. “Would you join me here as one
of my girls, Suzette?”
After Madame Laurent made the offer, Suzette sat motionless, barely able to breathe at the
thought of what she asked.
“Do you mean you want me to be a prostitute?” The look in the Madame’s eyes told her
that was exactly what she inferred.
“No! No, I could never do such a thing. I am a good girl!” With a quick bow of her head,
she begged Madame Laurent’s pardon. An overwhelming urge to flee the brothel washed over
her. “Please excuse me, Madame, but I must return to my work.”
Suzette sprung to her feet, leaving Madame Laurent on the settee. She retrieved her basket
by the parlor entrance, flung it upon her hip, and swiftly headed for the exit. Just as she grabbed
the doorknob and was about to turn it, she felt the firm grip of Madame Laurent’s hand upon her
upper arm.
“Think about it, Suzette. Do you truly want to live a life of poverty, hunger, and filth? For a
small price, you can swallow your pride and live like a queen. The choice is yours.”


