An Internally Driven Company
In drawing the strategy canvas, how does a company label the industry’s
competing factors? For example, does it use the word megahertz
instead of speed, or thermal water temperature instead of hot
water? Are the competing factors stated in terms buyers can understand
and value, or are they in operational jargon? The kind of language
used in the strategy canvas gives insight as to whether a
company’s strategic vision is built on an “outside-in” perspective,
driven by the demand side, or an “inside-out” perspective that is operationally
driven. Analyzing the language of the strategy canvas
helps a company understand how far it is from creating industry
demand.
The tools and frameworks introduced here are essential analytics
used throughout this book, and supplementary tools are introduced
Analytical Tools and Frameworks 43
in other chapters as needed. It is the intersection between these
analytic techniques and the six principles of formulating and executing
blue oceans that allow companies to break from the competition
and unlock uncontested market space.
Now we move on to the first principle, reconstructing market
boundaries. In the next chapter we discuss the opportunity-maximizing
In the broadest sense, a company competes not only with the other
firms in its own industry but also with companies in those other industries
that produce alternative products or services. Alternatives
are broader than substitutes. Products or services that have different
forms but offer the same functionality or core utility are often
substitutes for each other. On the other hand, alternatives include
products or services that have different functions and forms but the
same purpose.
For example, to sort out their personal finances, people can buy
and install a financial software package, hire a CPA, or simply use
pencil and paper. The software, the CPA, and the pencil are largely
substitutes for each other. They have very different forms but serve
the same function: helping people manage their financial affairs.
In contrast, products or services can take different forms and
perform different functions but serve the same objective. Consider
cinemas versus restaurants. Restaurants have few physical features
in common with cinemas and serve a distinct function: They
provide conversational and gastronomical pleasure. This is a very
different experience from the visual entertainment offered by cinemas.
Despite the differences in form and function, however, people
go to a restaurant for the same objective that they go to the movies:
to enjoy a night out. These are not substitutes, but alternatives to
choose from.
In making every purchase decision, buyers implicitly weigh alternatives,
often unconsciously. Do you need a self-indulgent two
hours? What should you do to achieve it? Do you go to movie, have a
massage, or enjoy reading a favorite book at a local café? The
Reconstruct Market Boundaries 49
thought process is intuitive for individual consumers and industrial
buyers alike.
For some reason, we often abandon this intuitive thinking when
we become sellers. Rarely do sellers think consciously about how
their customers make trade-offs across alternative industries. A
shift in price, a change in model, even a new ad campaign can elicit
a tremendous response from rivals within an industry, but the same
actions in an alternative industry usually go unnoticed. Trade journals,
trade shows, and consumer rating reports reinforce the vertical
walls between one industry and another. Often, however, the
space between alternative industries provides opportunities for
value innovation.
Consider NetJets, which created the blue ocean of fractional jet
ownership. In less than twenty years NetJets has grown larger than
many airlines, with more than five hundred aircraft, operating
more than two hundred fifty thousand flights to more than one hundred
forty countries. Purchased by Berkshire Hathaway in 1998,
today NetJets is a multibillion-dollar business, with revenues growing
at 30–35 percent per year from 1993 to 2000. NetJets’ success
has been attributed to its flexibility, shortened travel time, hasslefree
travel experience, increased reliability, and strategic pricing.
The reality is that NetJets reconstructed market boundaries to create
this blue ocean by looking across alternative industries.
The most lucrative mass of customers in the aviation industry
are corporate travelers. NetJets looked at the existing alternatives
and found that when business travelers want to fly, they have two
principal choices. On the one hand, a company’s executives can fly
business class or first class on a commercial airline. On the other
hand, a company can purchase its own aircraft to serve its corporate
travel needs. The strategic question is, Why would corporations
choose one alternative industry over another? By focusing on
the key factors that lead corporations to trade across alternatives
and eliminating or reducing everything else, NetJets created its
blue ocean strategy.
Consider this: Why do corporations choose to use commercial
airlines for their corporate travel? Surely it’s not because of the
50 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
long check-in and security lines, hectic flight transfers, overnight
stays, or congested airports. Rather, they choose commercial airlines
for only one reason: costs. On the one hand, commercial travel
avoids the high up-front, fixed-cost investment of a multimilliondollar
jet aircraft. On the other hand, a company purchases only
the number of corporate airline tickets needed per year, lowering
variable costs and reducing the possibility of unused aviation
travel time that often accompanies the ownership of corporate jets.
So NetJets offers its customers one-sixteenth ownership of an
aircraft to be shared with fifteen other customers, each one entitled
to fifty hours of flight time per year. Starting at $375,000 (plus pilot,
maintenance, and other monthly costs), owners can purchase a
share in a $6 million aircraft.1 Customers get the convenience of a
private jet at the price of a commercial airline ticket. Comparing
first-class travel with private aircraft, the National Business Aviation
Association found that when direct and indirect costs—hotel,
meals, travel time, expenses—were factored in, the cost of firstclass
commercial travel was significantly higher. In a cost-benefit
analysis for four passengers on a theoretical trip from Newark to
Austin, the real cost of the commercial trip was $19,400, compared
with $10,100 in a private jet.2 As for NetJets, it avoids the enormous
fixed costs that commercial airlines attempt to cover by filling larger
and larger aircraft. NetJets’ smaller airplanes, the use of smaller
regional airports, and limited staff keep costs to a minimum.
To understand the rest of the NetJets formula, consider the flip
side: Why do people choose corporate jets over commercial travel?
Certainly it is not to pay the multimillion-dollar price to purchase
planes. Nor is it to set up a dedicated flight department to take care
of scheduling and other administrative matters. Nor it is to pay socalled
deadhead costs—the costs of flying the aircraft from its
home base to where it is needed. Rather, corporations buy private
jets to dramatically cut total travel time, to reduce the hassle
of congested airports, to allow for point-to-point travel, and to
gain the benefit of having more productive and energized executives
who can hit the ground running upon arrival. So NetJets built
on these distinctive strengths. Whereas 70 percent of commercial
Reconstruct Market Boundaries 51
flights went to only thirty airports across the United States, Net-
Jets offered access to more than five thousand five hundred airports
across the country, in convenient locations near business centers.
On international flights, your plane pulls directly up to the customs
office.
With point-to-point service and the exponential increase in the
number of airports to land in, there are no flight transfers; trips
that would otherwise require overnight stays can be completed in a
single day. The time from your car to takeoff is measured in minutes
instead of hours. For example, whereas a flight from Washington,
D.C., to Sacramento would take 10.5 hours on a commercial
airline, it is only 5.2 hours on a NetJets aircraft; from Palm Springs
to Cabo San Lucas takes 6 hours commercial, and only 2.1 hours via
NetJets.3 NetJets offers substantial cost savings in total travel time.
Perhaps most appealing, your jet is always available with only
four hours’ notice. If a jet is not available, NetJets will charter one
for you. Last but not least, NetJets dramatically reduces issues related
to security threats and offers clients customized in-flight service,
such as having your favorite food and beverages ready for you
when you board.
By offering the best of commercial travel and private jets and
eliminating and reducing everything else, NetJets opened up a
multibillion-dollar blue ocean wherein customers get the convenience
and speed of a private jet with a low fixed cost and the low
variable cost of commercial airline travel (see figure 3-1). And the
competition? According to NetJets, in the past seven years fiftyseven
companies have set up fractional jet operations; of those,
fifty-seven have gone out of business.
The biggest telecommunications success in Japan since the
1980s also has its roots in path 1. Here we are speaking of NTT
DoCoMo’s i-mode, which was launched in 1999. The i-mode service
changed the way people communicate and access information in
Japan. NTT DoCoMo’s insight into creating a blue ocean came by
thinking about why people trade-across the alternatives of mobile
phones and the Internet. With deregulation of the Japanese tele-
52 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
communications industry, new competitors were entering the market
and price competition and technological races were the norm.
The result was that costs were rising while the average revenue per
user fell. NTT DoCoMo broke out of this red ocean of bloody competition
by creating a blue ocean of wireless transmission not only
of voice but also of text, data, and pictures.
NTT DoCoMo asked, What are the distinctive strengths of the
Internet over cell phones, and vice versa? Although the Internet offered
endless information and services, the killer apps were e-mail,
simple information (such as news, weather forecasts, and a telephone
directory), and entertainment (including games, events, and
music entertainment). The key downside of the Internet was the far
higher price of computer hardware, an overload of information, the
Ironically, European and U.S. counterparts who have been scrambling
to unlock a similar blue ocean in the West have so far failed.
Why? Our assessment shows that they have been focused on delivering
the most sophisticated technology, WAP (wireless application
protocol), instead of delivering exceptional value. This has led
them to build overcomplicated offerings that miss the key commonalities
valued by the mass of people.
Many other well-known success stories have looked across alternatives
to create new markets. The Home Depot offers the expertise of
professional home contractors at markedly lower prices than hardware
stores. By delivering the decisive advantages of both alternative
industries—and eliminating or reducing everything else—The
Home Depot has transformed enormous latent demand for home
improvement into real demand, making ordinary homeowners into
do-it-yourselfers. Southwest Airlines concentrated on driving as the
alternative to flying, providing the speed of air travel at the price of
car travel and creating the blue ocean of short-haul air travel. Similarly,
Intuit looked to the pencil as the chief alternative to personal
financial software to develop the fun and intuitive Quicken software.
What are the alternative industries to your industry? Why do
customers trade across them? By focusing on the key factors that
lead buyers to trade across alternative industries and eliminating
or reducing everything else, you can create a blue ocean of new
market space.
Path 2: Look Across Strategic
Groups Within Industries
Just as blue oceans can often be created by looking across alternative
industries, so can they be unlocked by looking across strategic
groups. The term refers to a group of companies within an industry
that pursue a similar strategy. In most industries, the fundamental
strategic differences among industry players are captured by a small
number of strategic groups.
Reconstruct Market Boundaries 55
Strategic groups can generally be ranked in a rough hierarchical
order built on two dimensions: price and performance. Each jump
in price tends to bring a corresponding jump in some dimensions of
performance. Most companies focus on improving their competitive
position within a strategic group. Mercedes, BMW, and Jaguar,
for example, focus on outcompeting one another in the luxury car
segment as economy car makers focus on excelling over one another
in their strategic group. Neither strategic group, however,
pays much heed to what the other is doing because from a supply
point of view they do not seem to be competing.
The key to creating a blue ocean across existing strategic groups
is to break out of this narrow tunnel vision by understanding
which factors determine customers’ decisions to trade up or down
from one group to another.
Consider Curves, the Texas-based women’s fitness company.
Since franchising began in 1995, Curves has grown like wildfire, acquiring
more than two million members in more than six thousand
locations, with total revenues exceeding the $1 billion mark. A new
Curves opens, on average, every four hours somewhere in the world.
What’s more, this growth was triggered almost entirely through
word of mouth and buddy referrals. Yet, at its inception, Curves
was seen as entering an oversaturated market, gearing its offering
to customers who would not want it, and making its offering significantly
blander than the competition’s. In reality, however, Curves
exploded demand in the U.S. fitness industry, unlocking a huge untapped
market, a veritable blue ocean of women struggling and failing
to keep in shape through sound fitness. Curves built on the
decisive advantages of two strategic groups in the U.S. fitness industry—
traditional health clubs and home exercise programs—
and eliminated or reduced everything else.
At the one extreme, the U.S. fitness industry is awash with traditional
health clubs that catered to both men and women, offering a
full range of exercise and sporting options, usually in upscale urban
locations. Their trendy facilities are designed to attract the high-end
health club set. They have the full range of aerobic and strength
56 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
training machines, a juice bar, instructors, and a full locker room
with showers and sauna, because the aim is for customers to spend
social as well as exercise time there. Having fought their way
across town to health clubs, customers typically spend at least an
hour there, and more often two. Membership fees for all this are
typically in the range of $100 per month—not cheap, guaranteeing
that the market would stay upscale and small. Traditional health
club customers represent only 12 percent of the entire population,
concentrated overwhelmingly in the larger urban areas. Investment
costs for a traditional full-service health club run from $500,000 to
more than $1 million, depending on the city center location.
At the other extreme is the strategic group of home exercise programs,
such as exercise videos, books, and magazines. These are a
small fraction of the cost, are used at home, and generally require
little or no exercise equipment. Instruction is minimal, being confined
to the star of the exercise video or book and magazine explanations
and illustrations.
The question is, What makes women trade either up or down between
traditional health clubs and home exercise programs? Most
women don’t trade up to health clubs for the profusion of special
machines, juice bars, locker rooms with sauna, pool, and the
chance to meet men. The average female nonathlete does not even
want to run into men when she is working out, perhaps revealing
lumps in her leotards. She is not inspired to line up behind machines
in which she needs to change weights and adjust their incline
angles. As for time, it has become an increasingly scarce
commodity for the average woman. Few can afford to spend one to
two hours at a health club several times a week. For the mass of
women, the city center locations also present traffic challenges,
something that increases stress and discourages going to the gym.
It turns out that most women trade up to health clubs for one
principal reason. When they are at home it’s too easy to find an excuse
for not working out. It is hard to be disciplined in the confines
of one’s home if you are not already a committed sports enthusiast.
Working out collectively, instead of alone, is more motivating and
Reconstruct Market Boundaries 57
inspiring. Conversely, women who use home exercise programs do
so primarily for the time saving, lower costs, and privacy.
Curves built its blue ocean by drawing on the distinctive strengths
of these two strategic groups, eliminating and reducing everything
else (see figure 3-2). Curves has eliminated all the aspects of the traditional
health club that are of little interest to the broad mass of
women. Gone are the profusion of special machines, food, spa, pool,
and even locker rooms, which have been replaced by a few curtainedoff
changing areas.
The experience in a Curves club is entirely different from that in
a typical health club. The member enters the exercise room where
the machines (typically about ten) are arranged, not in rows facing
a television as in the health club, but in a circle to facilitate interchange
among members, making the experience fun. The QuickFit
circuit training system uses hydraulic exercise machines, which
need no adjusting, are safe, simple to use, and nonthreatening.
Specifically designed for women, these machines reduce impact
stress and build strength and muscle. While exercising, members
can talk and support one another, and the social, nonjudgmental
atmosphere is totally different from that of a typical health club.
There are few if any mirrors on the wall, and there are no men staring
at you. Members move around the circle of machines and aerobic
pads and in thirty minutes complete the whole workout. The
result of reducing and focusing service on the essentials is that
prices fall to around $30 per month, opening the market to the
broad mass of women. Curves’ tagline could be “for the price of a
cup of coffee a day you can obtain the gift of health through proper
exercise.”
Curves offers the distinctive value depicted in figure 3-2 at a
lower cost. Compared with the start-up investment of $500,000 to
$1 million for traditional health clubs, start-up investments for
Curves are in the range of only $25,000 to $30,000 (excluding a
$20,000 franchise fee) because of the wide range of factors the company
eliminated. Variable costs are also significantly lower, with
personnel and maintenance of facilities dramatically reduced and
58 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
rent reduced because of the much smaller spaces required: 1,500
square feet in nonprime suburban locations versus 35,000 to 100,000
square feet in prime urban locations. Curves’ low-cost business
model makes its franchises easy to afford and helps explain why
they have mushroomed quickly. Most franchises are profitable
within a few months, as soon as they recruit on average one hundred
members. Established Curves franchises are selling in the
range of $100,000 to $150,000 on the secondary market.
The result is that Curves facilities are everywhere in most towns
of any size. Curves is not competing directly with other health and
exercise concepts; it created new blue ocean demand. As the
United States and North America become saturated, management
has plans to expand into Europe. Expansion has already begun in
Latin America and Spain. By the end of 2004, Curves is expected to
reach eight thousand five hundred fitness centers.
Reconstruct Market Boundaries 59
FIGURE 3-2
The Strategy Canvas of Curves
High
Low
Price Workout Availability of Nonthreatening Womanly
equipment instructors same-sex fun
Amenities (treadmills, Workout Environment environ- Conven- atmosweights,
time encouraging ment ience phere
etc.) discipline
and motivation
in exercise
Curves
Home Exercise
Program
Traditional
Health Clubs
Beyond Curves, many companies have created blue oceans by
looking across strategic groups. Ralph Lauren created the blue
ocean of “high fashion with no fashion.” Its designer name, the elegance
of its stores, and the luxury of its materials capture what
most customers value in haute couture. At the same time, its updated
classical look and price capture the best of the classical lines
such as Brooks Brothers and Burberry. By combining the most attractive
factors of both groups and eliminating or reducing everything
else, Polo Ralph Lauren not only captured share from both
segments but also drew many new customers into the market.
In the luxury car market, Toyota’s Lexus carved out a new blue
ocean by offering the quality of the high-end Mercedes, BMW, and
Jaguar at a price closer to the lower-end Cadillac and Lincoln. And
think of the Sony Walkman. By looking across the high fidelity of
boom boxes with the low price and mobility of transistor radios
within the audio equipment industry, Sony created the personal
portable-stereo market in the late 1970s. The Walkman took share
from these two strategic groups. In addition, its leap in value drew new
customers, including joggers and commuters, into this blue ocean.
Michigan-based Champion Enterprises identified a similar opportunity
by looking across two strategic groups in the housing industry:
makers of prefabricated housing and on-site developers.
Prefabricated houses are cheap and quick to build, but they are
also dismally standardized and have a low-quality image. Houses
built by developers on-site offer variety and an image of high quality
but are dramatically more expensive and take longer to build.
Champion created a blue ocean by offering the decisive advantages
of both strategic groups. Its prefabricated houses are quick to
build and benefit from tremendous economies of scale and lower
costs, but Champion also allows buyers to choose such high-end finishing
touches as fireplaces, skylights, and even vaulted ceilings to
give the homes a personal feel. In essence, Champion has changed
the definition of prefabricated housing. As a result, far more lowerto
middle-income buyers have become interested in purchasing pre-
60 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
fabricated housing rather than renting or buying an apartment,
In most industries, competitors converge around a common definition
of who the target buyer is. In reality, though, there is a chain of
“buyers” who are directly or indirectly involved in the buying decision.
The purchasers who pay for the product or service may differ
from the actual users, and in some cases there are important influencers
as well. Although these three groups may overlap, they often
differ. When they do, they frequently hold different definitions of
value. A corporate purchasing agent, for example, may be more concerned
with costs than the corporate user, who is likely to be far
more concerned with ease of use. Similarly, a retailer may value a
manufacturer’s just-in-time stock replenishment and innovative financing.
But consumer purchasers, although strongly influenced
by the channel, do not value these things.
Individual companies in an industry often target different customer
segments—for example, large versus small customers. But an
industry typically converges on a single buyer group. The pharmaceutical
industry, for example, focuses overridingly on influencers:
doctors. The office equipment industry focuses heavily on purchasers:
corporate purchasing departments. And the clothing industry
sells predominantly to users. Sometimes there is a strong
economic rationale for this focus. But often it is the result of industry
practices that have never been questioned.
Challenging an industry’s conventional wisdom about which
buyer group to target can lead to the discovery of new blue ocean.
By looking across buyer groups, companies can gain new insights
Reconstruct Market Boundaries 61
into how to redesign their value curves to focus on a previously
overlooked set of buyers.
Think of Novo Nordisk, the Danish insulin producer that created
a blue ocean in the insulin industry. Insulin is used by diabetics
to regulate the level of sugar in their blood. Historically, the
insulin industry, like most of the pharmaceutical industry, focused
its attention on the key influencers: doctors. The importance of
doctors in affecting the insulin purchasing decision of diabetics
made doctors the target buyer group of the industry. Accordingly,
the industry geared its attention and efforts to produce purer insulin
in response to doctors’ quest for better medication. The issue
was that innovations in purification technology had improved dramatically
by the early 1980s. As long as the purity of insulin was
the major parameter upon which companies competed, little
progress could be made further in that direction. Novo itself had
already created the first “human monocomponent” insulin that
was a chemically exact copy of human insulin. Competitive convergence
among the major players was rapidly occurring.
Novo Nordisk, however, saw that it could break away from the
competition and create a blue ocean by shifting the industry’s longstanding
focus on doctors to the users—patients themselves. In focusing
on patients, Novo Nordisk found that insulin, which was
supplied to diabetes patients in vials, presented significant challenges
in administering. Vials left the patient with the complex and
unpleasant task of handling syringes, needles, and insulin, and
of administering doses according to his or her needs. Needles and
syringes also evoked unpleasant feelings of social stigmatism for
patients. And patients did not want to fiddle with syringes and needles
outside their homes, a frequent occurrence because many patients
must inject insulin several times a day.
This led Novo Nordisk to the blue ocean opportunity of NovoPen,
launched in 1985. NovoPen, the first user-friendly insulin delivery
solution, was designed to remove the hassle and embarrassment of
administering insulin. The NovoPen resembled a fountain pen; it
contained an insulin cartridge that allowed the patient to easily
62 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
carry, in one self-contained unit, roughly a week’s worth of insulin.
The pen had an integrated click mechanism, making it possible for
even blind patients to control the dosing and administer insulin.
Patients could take the pen with them and inject insulin with ease
and convenience without the embarrassing complexity of syringes
and needles.
To dominate the blue ocean it had unlocked, Novo Nordisk followed
up by introducing, in 1989, NovoLet, a prefilled disposable insulin
injection pen with a dosing system that provided users with
even greater convenience and ease of use. And in 1999 it brought
out the Innovo, an integrated electronic memory and cartridgebased
delivery system. Innovo was designed to manage the delivery
of insulin through built-in memory and to display the dose, the last
dose, and the elapsed time—information that is critical for reducing
risk and eliminating worries about missing a dose.
Novo Nordisk’s blue ocean strategy shifted the industry landscape
and transformed the company from an insulin producer to a diabetes
care company. NovoPen and the later delivery systems swept
over the insulin market. Sales of insulin in prefilled devices or pens
now account for the dominant share in Europe and Japan, where
patients are advised to take frequent injections of insulin every day.
Although Novo Nordisk itself has more than a 60 percent share in
Europe and 80 percent in Japan, 70 percent of its total turnover
comes from diabetes care, an offering that originated largely in the
company’s thinking in terms of users rather than influencers.
Similarly, consider Bloomberg. In a little more than a decade,
Bloomberg became one of the largest and most profitable businessinformation
providers in the world. Until Bloomberg’s debut in the
early 1980s, Reuters and Telerate dominated the online financialinformation
industry, providing news and prices in real time to the
brokerage and investment community. The industry focused on purchasers—
IT managers—who valued standardized systems, which
made their lives easier.
This made no sense to Bloomberg. Traders and analysts, not IT
managers, make or lose millions of dollars for their employers each
Reconstruct Market Boundaries 63
day. Profit opportunities come from disparities in information.
When markets are active, traders and analysts must make rapid decisions.
Every second counts.
So Bloomberg designed a system specifically to offer traders better
value, one with easy-to-use terminals and keyboards labeled
with familiar financial terms. The systems also have two flat-panel
monitors so that traders can see all the information they need at
once without having to open and close numerous windows. Because
traders must analyze information before they act, Bloomberg added
a built-in analytic capability that works with the press of a button.
Before, traders and analysts had to download data and use a pencil
and calculators to perform important financial calculations. Now
users can quickly run “what if ” scenarios to compute returns on alternative
investments, and they can perform longitudinal analyses
of historical data.
By focusing on users, Bloomberg was also able to see the paradox
of traders’ and analysts’ personal lives. They have tremendous income
but work such long hours that they have little time to spend
it. Realizing that markets have slow times during the day when little
trading takes place, Bloomberg decided to add information and
purchasing services aimed at enhancing traders’ personal lives.
Traders can use these services to buy items such as flowers, clothing,
and jewelry; make travel arrangements; get information about
wines; or search through real estate listings.
By shifting its focus upstream from purchasers to users, Bloomberg
created a value curve that was radically different from anything
the industry had seen before. The traders and analysts wielded
their power within their firms to force IT managers to purchase
Bloomberg terminals.
Many industries afford similar opportunities to create blue
oceans. By questioning conventional definitions of who can and
should be the target buyer, companies can often see fundamentally
new ways to unlock value. Consider how Canon copiers created the
small desktop copier industry by shifting the target customer of
the copier industry from corporate purchasers to users. Or how
64 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
SAP shifted the customer focus of the business application software
industry from the functional user to the corporate purchaser
to create its enormously successful real-time integrated software
business.
What is the chain of buyers in your industry? Which buyer group
does your industry typically focus on? If you shifted the buyer
group of your industry, how could you unlock new value?
Path 4: Look Across Complementary
Product and Service Offerings
Few products and services are used in a vacuum. In most cases,
other products and services affect their value. But in most industries,
rivals converge within the bounds of their industry’s product
and service offerings. Take movie theaters. The ease and cost of
getting a babysitter and parking the car affect the perceived value
of going to the movies. Yet these complementary services are beyond
the bounds of the movie theater industry as it has been traditionally
defined. Few cinema operators worry about how hard or
costly it is for people to get babysitters. But they should, because it
affects demand for their business. Imagine a movie theater with a
babysitting service.
Untapped value is often hidden in complementary products and
services. The key is to define the total solution buyers seek when
they choose a product or service. A simple way to do so is to think
about what happens before, during, and after your product is used.
Babysitting and parking the car are needed before people can go to
the movies. Operating and application software are used along
with computer hardware. In the airline industry, ground transportation
is used after the flight but is clearly part of what the customer
needs to travel from one place to another.
Consider NABI, a Hungarian bus company. It applied path 4 to
the $1 billion U.S. transit bus industry. The major customers in
the industry are public transport properties (PTPs), municipally
Reconstruct Market Boundaries 65
owned transportation companies serving fixed-route public bus
transportation in major cities or counties.
Under the accepted rules of competition in the industry, companies
competed to offer the lowest purchase price. Designs were outdated,
delivery times were late, quality was low, and the price of
options was prohibitive given the industry’s penny-pinching approach.
To NABI, however, none of this made sense. Why were bus
companies focused only on the initial purchase price of the bus,
when municipalities kept buses in circulation for twelve years on
average? When it framed the market in this way, NABI saw insights
that had escaped the entire industry.
NABI discovered that the highest-cost element to municipalities
was not the price of the bus per se, the factor the whole industry
competed on, but rather the costs that came after the bus was purchased:
the maintenance of running the bus over its twelve-year
life cycle. Repairs after traffic accidents, fuel usage, wear and tear
on parts that frequently needed to be replaced due to the bus’s
heavy weight, preventive body work to stop rusting, and the like—
these were the highest-cost factors to municipalities. With new demands
for clean air being placed on municipalities, the cost for
public transport not being environmentally friendly was also beginning
to be felt. Yet despite all these costs, which outstripped the
initial bus price, the industry had virtually overlooked the complementary
activity of maintenance and life-cycle costs.
This made NABI realize that the transit bus industry did not
have to be a commodity-price-driven industry but that bus companies,
focusing on selling buses at the lowest possible price, had
the industry, it offered its buses at a much lower life-cycle 
