I take a matching heap of crumble, and shove it into my own mouth. “You should have said
you’re the same way, then ‘accidentally’ put your hand put down his pants,” I say.
“Yeah, but he’d have liked that,” Jamie reminds me.
“True.”
“When he figured out I wasn’t buying it, he started going on about how my lodging a
complaint was going to ruin his career, and that he would promise to do better if I just
wouldn’t go to Dr. Veatch. That’s when I told him it was too late—that Dr. Veatch already
knew, and that soon the whole college would. After that, Reverend Mark got really quiet, and
said I could go. So then when I got to your office the next morning and Dr. Veatch was
dead—”
“You assumed Reverend Mark had silenced him forever,” I say. “And that you were destined
to be his next victim.”
“Exactly,” Jamie says, thoughtfully scraping the sides of the dish with her spoon so there’ll
be no crust to have to scour before loading into the dishwasher. I join her. I can see it’s going
to take our combined, united efforts to finish this crumble. I mean, bring down Reverend
Mark.
“I want you to come back to the city with me, and tell everything you just told me to a
detective friend of mine,” I say. “You don’t have to worry about Reverend Mark going after
you—if he’s the real killer, I mean. Detective Canavan won’t let that happen. I won’t let that
happen.”
“How are you going to do that?” Jamie wants to know.
“Easy,” I say, “I’ll make him persona non grata in Fischer Hall. So you’ll be safe there.”
“I don’t know,” Jamie says, chewing crystallized bits of sugary crust.
“Jamie, seriously. What alternative do you have? You’re going to stay here in Rock Ridge for
the rest of your life, with your mom and dad? Gavin’s going back to the city with us. Don’t
you want to hang out with him?”
One of Jamie’s eyebrows goes up, as do the corners of her now cherry-stained mouth.
“Well. Yeah,” she admits, slowly. “I guess. He’s sweet. And so understanding. There aren’t a
lot of guys who’d sit and listen to a girl carry on like a crazy person the way I was doing last
night…Well, I guess that makes sense, on account of his mom being a gynecologist, and all.”
I try not to say anything. I mean, it’s none of my business, really.
“Do you…” Jamie looks at me with her blue eyes very wide. “Do you think…do you think he
wants to hang out with me?”
  
I can’t help rolling my own blue eyes. “Uh, yeah, Jamie, I do. Besides, when your mom gets
home and finds out what we did to her crumble, she’s going to kill you for sure. So you’re
safer back in the city anyway.”
Jamie’s grin broadens. “Okay. Let me take a shower and grab my stuff.”
“Deal,” I say, and lean back in my chair.
When she’s gone, I surreptitiously undo the top button to my jeans. Because the truth is, even
though I matched her spoonful for spoonful, I can’t keep up with these kids the way I used to.
I really can’t.
It’s depressing, but true.
16
No use putting rose petals on my bed
That’s not the way you’ll win me
Take back that box from Tiffany
All I want’s an ice cream sundae
“Chocolate Lover”
Written by Heather Wells
The snarling inflatable rat is gone from the front of Fisher Hall by the time we pull up after
our visit to the Sixth Precinct. The protesters have moved themselves (and their rat) to the
library, where they can probably get more attention anyway, since that’s where President
Allington’s offices are.
Fortunately, the news vans have moved along with them, so Cooper easily finds a place to
pull over and let us all out.
Still, even though Gavin’s the one who caused all the trouble by spending the night in jail,
my arm is the one Cooper snags as I’m getting out of his car.
“Hold on a minute,” he says, as the kids tumble out onto the sidewalk. He waits until they’re
safely inside the building and out of earshot before asking, “So you’re gonna PNG Halstead.
Then what are you going do?”
It seems to me that my making Mark Halstead persona non grata in Fischer Hall is about the
only wrist slapping the good reverend is going to receive. Detective Canavan had seemed less
than impressed by Jamie’s story, but said he’d “look into Halstead’s whereabouts” the
morning of Dr. Veatch’s murder. This had seemed to satisfy Jamie…
  
But not me. I could tell Detective Canavan felt as if they already had their killer and was
going to do about as much looking into Halstead’s whereabouts the morning of Dr. Veatch’s
murder as the college had done looking into Mark Halstead’s previous employment record.
Which, I knew, was nil.
“I don’t know,” I say to Cooper. I am slightly distracted by the size of the hand around my
wrist. Cooper’s a big guy. Bigger than Tad. His fingers are warm against my skin. “My job, I
guess? Payroll’s due soon. I gotta send a reminder to the kids to fill out their time sheets.”
“That’s not what I meant,” Cooper says. “And you know it.”
I sort of do know it. But I’m having trouble meeting his gaze—which is very blue, and very
intent—with my own. My mouth has suddenly gone very dry, and my heart appears to be
having some sort of attack—palpitations or simply a stoppage, it’s hard to say. My chest feels
tight. I’m glad I showed my student workers Punky Brewster CPR training videos for fun
during my annual Final Exam Holiday Cookie Decorating Study Break. I’m the one who’s
probably going to end up needing it, when I go staggering inside in a few minutes.
“Don’t worry,” I say, keeping my gaze on his fingernails. They are not exactly manicured,
unlike his brother’s. “I’m not going to start investigating Dr. Veatch’s murder on my own. I
totally got the message yesterday, with the whole Mafioso thing.”
“That’s not what I mean, either.”
“Well, if you mean am I going to go over to the college chapel and pretend I have a soul that
needs unburdening, and request Reverend Mark as the only guy to whom I can unburden it, in
the hopes that he’ll try to feel me up so I can report him to the board of trustees myself,” I
say, “I’m not going to do that, either, because I have to have at least a little face time in my
office today, or risk losing my job.”
“I’m not talking about that, either,” Cooper says, in an uncharacteristically frustrated voice.
I take a chance on glancing up then, and am surprised to see that he isn’t even looking at me,
but at some distant point somewhere over my left shoulder. But when I turn my head to see
what’s so fascinating over there, the only thing I see is a Ryder rental truck parked in front of
the building Owen lived in, right down the street from Fischer Hall. Which is weird, because
it isn’t even the end or middle of the month. So who would be moving in or out? A couple
must be divorcing, or something.
When I look back at Cooper again, he’s let go of my wrist, and turned to face the steering
wheel once more.
“You better go,” he says, in his normal, slightly sardonic tone. “Payroll’s waiting.”
“Um.” Wait. What had he been going to say? Stupid Ryder truck! Stupid people, splitting up!
“Yeah. I guess I better. Thanks for driving me up to Rock Ridge and for all your help with
Gavin and Jamie and everything…”
Cooper does something that astonishes me then. He actually smiles at the mention of Gavin’s
name.
  
Now I’m definitely going to need CPR. Because that smile causes a blockage in all of my
major arteries.
“I guess you were right all along,” he says. “He’s not such a bad kid, after all.”
Okay. What is going on with him?
But before I have time to figure it out, someone calls my name, and I look up and see Sarah
standing on the sidewalk, staring at me, a nervous expression on her face.
At least I think it’s Sarah.
“Uh…see you at home, Heather,” Cooper says, taking in Sarah’s outfit with a raised
eyebrow. It doesn’t take a trained detective to see that Sarah has undergone a radical
makeover—she’s in lipstick and high heels, contact lenses instead of glasses, her hair blown
and smooth, her legs bare and actually shaved. What’s more, she’s wearing a skirt—her skirt
from her interview suit, maybe, with a white blouse that appears to have an actual Peter Pan
collar (I didn’t know they even make those anymore).
But it’s a skirt, just the same.
She looks good. More than good. She looks hot. In a naughty librarian kind of way.
“Um…bye,” I say to Cooper, as I get slowly out of the car, and shut the door behind me.
Cooper shakes his head and drives away, leaving me alone with Sarah on the sidewalk. I
realize I’ll just have to deal with him—and that heart-attack-inducing smile of his—later.
Although to be truthful, the fact that tonight will be the first night that my dad will be fully
moved out—the first night in months that Cooper and I will actually be alone together in the
brownstone—does cause my heart actually to skip a beat.
Stop it, Heather. You are engaged—well, practically—to another man. A man with whom
you should be spending the night tonight.
Funny how the thought of spending the night with Tad does nothing whatsoever to my
heartstrings.
Even though they’re a quarter of a mile away, I can hear the protesting GSCers chanting in
front of the library. What they’re chanting, exactly, I can’t tell. But I can hear their strident
voices, off in the distance, as clearly as I can hear the traffic on Sixth Avenue a block away.
“Hi, Heather,” Sarah says, fidgeting with her skirt. “I…I wanted to talk to you, but you…you
were gone.”
“I had to run an errand,” I say, lamely. “Why aren’t you over there protesting? Why are you
so dressed up?”
Sarah’s pretty face—yes! She actually looks pretty, for once—twists.
  
“Do I look too dressed up?” she asks anxiously. “I do, don’t I? I should go back upstairs and
change? I was just—I was looking for you, to see what I should wear, but you weren’t
around, so I asked Magda instead, and Magda—Magda did it.”
I look Sarah up and down. She looks, to be honest, fantastic. “Magda did this?”
“Yes. It’s too much, isn’t it? I knew it. I told her it was too much. I’m going back inside to
change.”
I grab her wrist before she can do so.
“Hold on,” I say. “You look great. Honest. It’s not too much. At least, I don’t think so. Where
are you going?”
A pink blush that has nothing to do with powder suffuses Sarah’s cheeks.
“Sebastian’s parents are in town,” she says. “He was arraigned this morning. They’ve posted
his bail. I’m…I’m meeting them in Chinatown. We’re going to get something to eat.”
“So!” I can’t help laughing. “This is your meeting-his-parents look.”
“I look stupid,” Sarah says, tugging on the wrist I still hold. “I’ll go change.”
“No, you look great,” I say, still laughing. “Sarah, honest. You look fantastic. Don’t change a
thing.”
She stops struggling. “Do you mean it? Really?”
“Really,” I say, dropping her wrist. “Sebastian is going to plotz when he sees you. I mean, the
man’s just spent the past twenty-four hours in prison. What are you trying to do to him?”
Her blush deepens. “It’s just,” she says. “I know he doesn’t think of me…like that. And I
want him to. I really want him to.”
“Well, one look at you in those heels,” I say, “and he won’t be able to think of anything else.
You owe Magda. Big time.”
Sarah is chewing her lower lip—not a good idea, while wearing lipstick. Fortunately, she’s
carrying more in a little patent leather clutch, which she opens with trembling fingers. “I feel
bad, leaving the GSC to cope all on its own,” she says, as she pulls out some lip gloss. “And
tonight is the big rally. But this is important, too.”
“Of course,” I say.
“I mean, this is about more than health benefits,” Sarah says, as she dabs gloss onto her lips
with a little wand. “Sebastian’s life is at stake.”
“I understand,” I say. “He’s lucky to have you.”
  
“I just wish he’d realize it,” Sarah says, with a sigh. She puts the lip gloss back into her
clutch, and snaps it closed. “Heather, there’s something else I wanted to talk to you about.
Sebastian’s not allowed to leave the city, you know, until this whole thing is resolved, and the
charges are dropped or whatever. When they are…well, who knows if he’ll even still want to
go here, or whatever. I hope so. But until then…his parents are staying in a hotel, but it’s
pretty far from campus, and I was just wondering—I know he can’t use the storage room
anymore—it was wrong of me ever to abuse my grad assistant privileges that way. But could
I sign him in as a guest to my room? I mean, if he wants to visit me?”
I shrug. “Of course.”
Sarah looks at me curiously. “Even though he’s the lead suspect in our boss’s murder? That’s
not exactly going to make Sebastian popular around here, Heather. I mean, I don’t want you
to say yes just because of your personal feelings for me. I already talked it over with Tom,
and he said it was fine with him, but that it was up to you. You’re the one in the building who
was closest to Owen, and I don’t want you to do anything that might have emotional
repercussions for you later on. You know how you are, Heather. You act all tough on the
outside, but inside, you’re just a big marshmallow, a really classic passive-aggressive—”
“Oh, look,” I say. “Here comes an empty cab. You better grab it. You know how hard it is to
get an empty cab around here. Unless you want to walk over to Sixth Avenue. But in those
heels, I wouldn’t advise it.”
“Oh—” She teeters unsteadily to the curb. “Thanks. Bye, Heather! Wish me luck!”
“Good luck!” I wave good-bye, watch her stagger into the cab, then hurry into the building as
soon as she’s gone.
“Tom says to see him as soon as you come in,” Felicia says to me, as she hands me a huge
stack of messages. “Did Sarah find you?”
“Oh, she found me, all right,” I say.
Back in the hall director’s office, Tom is freaking out, as usual.
“Where have you been?” he cries, when he sees me.
“Westchester,” I say. “I told you I was going to Westchester. Remember?”
“But you were gone so long,” Tom whines. “Like, forever. And so many people have been
calling.”
“Tell me about it,” I say, waving my stack of messages as I flop down behind my desk.
“Anything important?”
“Oh, just the fact that Owen’s memorial service is TODAY!” Tom shouts.
“What?” I nearly drop the phone I’ve just picked up to return Tad’s call, the first message in
the pile I’m holding.
  
“Yeah,” Tom says. “And they want you to say a few words. Because you knew Owen better
than anyone else did on campus.”
Now I really do drop the phone. “WHAT?”
“Yeah.” Tom leans back in his desk chair, which he’s scooted into the doorframe of his office
so he can look me in the face as he delivers these bombshells. You can tell he’s sort of
enjoying himself. “And it’s at five today. They were going to have it over at the chapel, but
the outpouring of grief from the community due to the tragedy has been so great, they’ve had
to move it over to the sports center. So you better pull something together fast. And it better
be good. Because they’re expecting at least a couple thousand people.”
I nearly choke on my own spit. A couple thousand? At Owen “Don’t Borrow Paper From the
Dining Office” Veatch’s memorial service?
And I have to say a few words?
I’m so, so dead.
“But I barely knew him!” I wail.
“Maybe,” Tom volunteers, “you can just sing ‘Sugar Rush.’”
“You’re not helping,” I say.
“I know,” Tom says. “What was it Sebastian wanted you to sing at the GSC rally tonight?
‘Kumbaya.’ That’s what you should sing. Bring a divided community together.”
“Seriously, Tom. Shut up. I have to think.”
I have to write something totally good. Dr. Veatch deserves that. Just for what he was
doing—well, trying to do—for Jamie, he deserves that, at the very least.
But first, of course, I have to do Reverend Mark’s PNG. Owen would want that more—he’d
want to make sure Jamie was safe.
I fill out the appropriate form, then make multiple copies. It will have to go to the security
office—now staffed by Mr. Rosetti’s people, I guess—as well as to the reception and security
desk of the building. I’ll have to make sure my staff knows that, even though Reverend Mark
is an employee of the college, he isn’t allowed inside, no matter what he might say. I don’t
really think he’s going to try to get in—especially since I’m making sure he gets a copy of the
PNG…as does his supervisor.
And since I’ve written, under “Reason for PNG”: Inappropriate sexual behavior around
female resident, I have a pretty good idea I’ll be hearing from Reverend Mark’s supervisor
just as soon as the PNG hits his desk.
I call the student office worker on duty—currently at the reception desk, sorting mail—and
hand him the copies of the PNG, then send him to deliver them to the various offices to
which they are addressed.
  
Only then do I turn my mind to the piece for Owen’s memorial service.
What am I supposed to say about Owen? That the resident assistants couldn’t seem to care
less about him? I’ve yet to see a single one of them shed a tear over his loss. I’ve had bosses
arrested for murder they’ve cried harder over losing (I’m not kidding, either).
That he was a fair boss? I mean, I guess that’s true. He certainly didn’t play favorites. Maybe
if he had, he might not have ended up with a bullet in his brain.
Man, this is really hard. I can’t think of anything good to say about this guy.
Wait—he was nice to cats! And Jamie! He was nice to cats and big-boned girls. That’s
something, right?
I can’t stand up in front of the entire college community and go, “He was nice to cats and big-
boned girls.”
Okay, that’s it. I need some protein. I’ve had way too much cherry crumble. I need a bagel or
maybe a DoveBar or something, to calm my nerves.
I tell Tom I’ll be right back and head to the caf. It’s closed because it’s that weird period
between lunch and dinner, but I know Magda will let me in. She does…but I’m surprised to
see she’s not alone in there. Besides the regular staff, there are four small, dark-haired heads
bent over what appears to be homework—of the first, third, sixth, and eighth grade variety.
I recognize Pete’s kids, in their blue and white school uniforms, right away.
“Hello,” I say, darting an incredulous look in Magda’s direction. She’s sitting at her cash
register, filing her nails. Today, they’re lemon yellow.
“Hi, Heather,” Pete’s kids chime, in various levels of enthusiasm (the girls more so than the
boys).
“Hi,” I say. “What are you guys doing here?”
“Waiting for our dad,” the eldest, Nancy, says. “He’s going to take us home when he gets
done protesting.”
“No,” her sister corrects us. “He’s taking us out for pizza, then home.”
“We’re all going out for pizza,” Magda says. “The best pizza in the world, which happens to
be in my neighborhood.”
“I don’t know,” Nancy says, looking dubious. “We have good pizza in my neighborhood.”
Magda makes a face. “These kids think Pizza Hut is real pizza,” Magda says to me. “Tell
them.”
“Pizza Hut isn’t real pizza,” I tell them. “The way that balloon of Big Bird they fly in the
Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade isn’t the real Big Bird.”
  
“But the Santa at the end of the parade is the real Santa,” Pete’s youngest informs me,
gravely.
“Well, of course,” I say. To Magda, I whisper, out of the corner of my mouth, “Okay, Mother
Teresa. What gives?”
“Nothing,” she says innocently. “I’m just watching them for a little while. You know Pete
can’t take them home yet, because he’s still on the picket line, protesting.”
“Right,” I whisper back. “You just happened to volunteer to babysit. With no ulterior
motives.”
Magda shrugs. “I was thinking about what you said yesterday,” she says, not making eye
contact. “There might be a slight possibility I wasn’t exactly clear enough with my intentions.
I intend to rectify that. And see what happens.”
I nod in the direction of the kids, who’ve turned back toward their homework. “And what if
you end up mother of the year? I thought you were too young for that.”
“I’m too young to have my own,” Magda says, her heavily lined eyes widening. “But I’ll take
someone else’s. No problem. Besides, these are already potty trained.”
Shaking my head, I grab a DoveBar and head back to my office. Is it my imagination, or is
everyone around me seeming to pair up all of a sudden? I know it’s spring, and all, but
really…this is getting ridiculous. Everyone…everyone but me.
Oh, wait. I have a boyfriend, too. God, why can’t I seem to remember that? A boyfriend who
has a question to ask me, when the timing is right. That’s not a very good sign, is it? I mean,
that I can’t seem to remember Tad when he’s not around. That doesn’t bode particularly well
for the future of our relationship.
Nor does the fact that I can’t get some other guy’s smile—and, let’s be frank, hands—out of
my head.
What is wrong with me?
My phone is ringing its head off by the time I get to my desk. The caller ID says it’s the head
of the Housing Department, Dr. Stanley Jessup.
“Hi, Dr. Jessup,” I say when I pick up. “What can I do for you?”
“You can tell me why you just PNG’d Mark Halstead,” Stan says.
“Oh,” I say. “Because he regularly feels up one of my residents. It’s kind of a funny story,
actually. She had a meeting with Dr. Veatch to write up a formal complaint about it the
morning he was shot.”
“Are you sure this girl is telling the truth?”
“Um…yeah,” I say, in some surprise. “Why?”
  
“Because if there’s some way you can retract that PNG, you might want to do it. Reverend
Mark is the one running Owen’s memorial service, at which you are speaking. So the next
couple hours of your life are about to get very, very uncomfortable.”
17
Step out of the shadows
Step up to the plate
Take a look at what the world sees
Don’t hide who you want to be
“Who You Really Are”
Written by Heather Wells
“Who was Dr. Owen Veatch?”
This is the question, ostensibly rhetorical, with which Reverend Mark Halstead opens his
eulogy.
I glance around to see if anyone in the folding chairs on either side of me seems to have an
answer…but no one does. Everyone’s head is bent…but not in prayer. My colleagues are all
studying the faces of their cell phones or BlackBerrys.
Nice.
“I’ll tell you who Dr. Owen Veatch was,” Reverend Mark goes on. “Dr. Owen Veatch was a
man of conviction. Strong conviction. Owen Veatch was a man who had the courage to stand
up and say no.”
Reverend Mark spreads his arms out very wide on the word no, and the long sleeves of his
robe fly out like a white cape. “That’s right. Owen Veatch said no to this college campus
becoming a place of divisiveness. Owen Veatch said no to New York College being held
hostage by any one group who maintained their beliefs were more correct than any other’s.
Owen Veatch just said no…”
Muffy Fowler uncrosses her long, black-hosed legs (why didn’t I think of going home to
change before coming here? I’m still in jeans. I’m wearing jeans to my boss’s memorial
service. I have to be the worst employee ever. No way am I getting a Pansy this year), leans
over, and whispers in my ear, “Don’t you think he’s cuter than Jake Gyllenhaal?”
Tom, fanning himself with a copy of Us Weekly he’d snagged from the reception desk on our
way out, and brought with him for moral support, looks shocked.
“Bite your tongue, woman,” he whispers back.
  
“I wasn’t talking to you,” Muffy says. We have to be careful whispering, because we’re in
the second-to-the-front row of folding chairs—though considerably off to one side of the
wooden podium upon which Reverend Mark is currently hammering his fist. We’ve already
been caught whispering once before, and Reverend Mark had given us a dirty look that I’m
sure everybody in the gym, even in the very last row, had seen.
In the row in front of us, Pam Don’t-Call-Me-Mrs. Veatch sits sandwiched between Mrs.
Allington, the president’s wife, and a woman who can only be Owen’s mother, Mrs. Veatch
Senior, who, at eighty-something, looks as if she might drop dead herself at any moment, no
bullets necessary. All three women are staring up at Reverend Mark, tears streaming down
their faces. Only Mrs. Allington’s tears are due to the flask I know she keeps in her Prada
bag, and nips from regularly, when she thinks no one is looking. Every time she takes a nip,
Tom makes a note in his BlackBerry. He’s brought it along because it’s more expedient for
note taking, he believes, than his Day Runner.
“And this man, this professional educator, who believed so strongly in his convictions, who
strived to make this campus a safe, fair, learning environment for everyone,” Reverend Mark
goes on, “this man lost his life for his job—a job he dedicated more than half his years to—to
the young people of this country. He was there for our children, for over twenty years.”
Reverend Mark seems to be warming up to his subject. The youth choir, in risers to one side
of his podium, are gazing at him rapturously…almost as rapturously as Muffy and Tom are.
Not surprisingly, Jamie is not there. No one in the choir appears to be missing her too much.
Or at all. In their gold and white robes, the student singers look youthful and angelic and
quite unlike their normal selves, a few of whom I recognize as Fischer Hall residents I’ve
busted for smuggling kegs into the building under their coats.
“Revered and admired for his gift of communicating with the youths of today, Dr. Veatch
will be sorely missed and his passing deeply mourned,” Reverend Mark informs us.
“However, take comfort in the words of our Lord Jesus, as written in John, chapter three,
verse fifteen, that whosoever believeth in Him shall not perish, but have eternal life.”
I glance over at the Mrs. Veatches to see if they are taking comfort from the reverend’s
words. Mrs. Veatch Senior appears to have fallen asleep. Pam and Mrs. Allington are staring
up at the Reverend Mark, their mouths open. Apparently it hadn’t occurred to either of them
that Owen might have attained eternal life in the kingdom of the Lord. I have to admit the
possibility never occurred to me, either. But then I have only a passing familiarity with the
Bible.
Next to Mrs. Allington, her husband, President Allington, is deeply entranced in his
BlackBerry. Except when I look closer, I see he’s not checking his e-mail or surfing the Web.
He’s playing Fantasy Football.
“Fellow Pansies,” Reverend Mark goes on, in his deep, melodic voice, “I call upon you not to
grieve for Dr. Veatch, nor mourn his passing, but to celebrate his entrance into the kingdom
of the Lord.”
Reverend Mark seems to be winding down. I can see that the choir is getting ready to launch
into their next number. We’ve already been treated to “Bridge Over Troubled Water.” I
wonder, as I flip through my note cards to review what I’m going to say about Owen, what
  
our next musical treat will be. I have no idea what kind of music Owen liked. I recall he once
mentioned Michael Bolton, and shudder involuntarily. Tom glances over at me and says,
knowingly, “I know. If she keeps up at this rate, they’re going to have to carry her out,” and
nods meaningfully at Mrs. Allington.
With a few final assurances that Dr. Veatch is currently dwelling in the house of the Lord—a
far better abode than the one-bedroom apartment he’d formerly dwelt in—Reverend Mark
leaves the podium, wiping his forehead with a handkerchief, the long robes of his surplice
fluttering behind him. Muffy smiles her big, toothy Miss America smile at him as he passes
by. Reverend Mark smiles back, but not as big—
Then his gaze falls on me, seated next to Muffy, and the smile crumbles, then disappears
completely. In fact, you might even say the look he gives me is…well, deadly.
Yeah. Reverend Mark doesn’t like me too much.
He’s so busy giving me the death stare that the Reverend Mark almost smacks into Dr.
Jessup, who is making his way up to the podium next. Dr. Jessup shakes the minister’s hand,
and Reverend Mark utters a few words and places a comforting hand on the Housing
Department head’s shoulder.
The brief lull gives me an opportunity to look around the newly renamed (for reasons best left
unmentioned) New York College Sports Center gymnasium. Every folding chair and most of
the bleachers are filled with people. People who didn’t know Owen. People who have just
come to gawk at the memorial service of a murdered man. The gym floor is filled with
flowers…and film crews from the local news channels. Except for the youth choir and the
Fischer Hall resident assistants (whose attendance Tom made mandatory, informing them
they’d be assigned extra hours at the reception desk if they didn’t show up), I see almost no
students.
Except one. Make that two. There, high up in the bleachers, I see them. Jamie and Gavin.
Holding hands. And, yeah, okay, right at that particularly moment, making out.
But they’re there, and not because someone threatened them, but to show their respect. My
eyes fill with tears. God, what’s happening to me? I’ve never been this emotional over a
murder victim in my building. It’s not like there haven’t been plenty. And I didn’t even like
this one.
Dr. Jessup coughs into the microphone, and I turn back to face the podium. The head of
housing thanks Reverend Mark for that fine eulogy, then announces that from now on, the
Fischer Hall library will be known as the Owen Leonard Veatch Library. A plaque is being
engraved, and there will be a hanging ceremony as soon as it’s finished.
This announcement is met with applause, after which Dr. Jessup asks that donations for the
Owen Leonard Veatch Library be sent to the administrative offices of Fischer Hall.
Oh, so great. Now I’ll be keeping track of checks all day, on top of everything else. Dr.
Jessup adds that for those who wish to attend, there’ll be refreshments served on the main
floor of the sports center (in front of the fitness office) from six o’clock this evening until six-
thirty.
  
The youth choir startles just about everybody then by suddenly bursting into a particularly
spirited rendition of a song from the musical Hair. It isn’t just that “Good Morning Starshine”
is the type of song you’d never expect to hear at a memorial service. It’s that “Good Morning
Starshine” is a song you’d never expect to hear anywhere. The Mrs. Veatches, though, appear
to be enjoying themselves, along with Mrs. Allington. Every single one of them is holding a
tissue to the corner of one eye. Even Mrs. Veatch Senior has woken up a little, and is asking,
in a loud voice, “Is it over yet? Is it over?”
Sadly, the song ends way too soon, and Dr. Jessup returns to the microphone to say, “And
now, the person with whom Dr. Veatch worked most closely while he was here on campus,
the assistant director of Fisher Hall, our own Heather Wells, will say a few words. Heather?”
My heart, which had seemed to return to normal since Cooper drove off, does this weird
swoopy thing inside my chest. I’ve never had a problem with stage fright when it comes to
singing. You can, after all, hide behind the song. But when it comes to public speaking—
forget about it. I’d seriously rather be hanging by an elevator cable or be roofied by a
psychotic frat president than have to get up and speak in front of all these people.
I clutch my notes and try to swallow my fear, taking no comfort at all in Tom’s whispered
“You can do it!” and Muffy’s “Just picture ’em all in their boxers and panties!” That kind of
thing works great on The Brady Bunch, but in real life? Not so much.
I make my way to the podium, wishing more than ever I’d thought to stop home first to
change. I’m dressed, I realize, no differently than any of the students.
Convinced I’m going to hurl, I turn to address the sea of faces I see before me—and only
then realize I recognize more of them than I’d previously realized. Like, sitting directly in the
middle of the folding chairs before me, Tad, who raises a hand and smiles encouragingly. I
manage a queasy grin back…
…which fades as soon as I realize that seated not four rows behind him is Cooper, who raises
a hand as well, thinking I’m smiling at him.
Oh God. I’m going to hurl. I just know it.
Glancing down at the note cards I’ve stacked on the podium, I shake my head. I can’t do this.
I can’t. Why can’t I just chase down Reverend Mark and kick him in the back a few times? It
would be so much easier.
“Hi,” I say, into the microphone. My voice echoes disconcertingly throughout the gym.
Hi…hi…hi. “Um…The day I met Dr. Owen Veatch, the first thing he unpacked in his new
office at Fischer Hall was a Garfield Month-at-a-Glance calendar.”
I look out at the audience to see how they’re receiving this information. They all look back at
me stonily. Except Tom. He’s buried his face in his hands. And Tad. He’s smiling
encouragingly. Cooper just looks confused.
That’s when I notice my dad, in a chair next to Cooper’s. Oh God. My dad is here, too?
Seriously, this is proof there is no God.
  
“Dr. Veatch,” I go on, “loved Garfield—more, it turned out, than I ever knew. So much, in
fact, that he adopted a big orange cat that looked just like him, and named him Garfield. And
when that cat developed thyroid disease, what did Dr. Veatch do? He didn’t worry about the
expense of caring for a sick animal, or put him down. He gave Garfield pills for it. That’s the
kind of man Dr. Veatch was. The kind who loved his cat, Garfield.”
I glance at Pam Don’t-Call-Me-Mrs. Veatch. She’s crying, and gazing up at me happily.
Well, good. That’s who this is for, after all. The people who’d really cared about Dr. Veatch.
And Garfield. I’m doing the right thing. I know it.
Even if I can see that Tom is currently sticking his finger down his throat and making
gagging motions.
“The last time I saw Owen,” I go on, “he was sitting at his desk, writing the speech he was
going to give the senior RAs at their graduation dinner at the end of the month.
Commencement was Owen’s favorite school function, he told me, because it was a
celebration, he said, of accomplishment. Not just the accomplishments of the students, but the
accomplishments of the staff of New York College. Commencement was one of the few
concrete proofs Owen had that our efforts were a success. Every senior who graduated from
New York College was a personal victory not just for us administrators, but all of the staff of
the college.” I look directly at President Allington as I say this. “Everyone who pulled
together to help the students pass their classes and get their degrees, from the teaching
assistants who graded their exams to the custodians who kept their classrooms clean.”
I’d like to say that at this moment, President Allington stood up, said he realized I was right,
and declared that he was ending the strike and capitulating to all the demands of the GSC.
But he just keeps his head down, obviously still playing Fantasy Football.
“I don’t know much,” I go on, “about what happens to us when we die. I don’t know
anything about the afterlife. But I do know this. And that’s this year, Owen will be sorely
missed at New York College’s commencement ceremony. But I can’t help feeling that he’ll
be there in spirit…just as he’ll always be here, in our hearts.”
There is a moment of total silence following this last part of my speech. Then there is some
applause, polite at first. Then, thanks to Cooper standing up and thundering, “YEAH!” and
making very loud noises with his palms, followed very shortly by Tad, after first throwing a
startled look over his shoulder, then leaping to his feet and doing the same thing, the applause
becomes more heartfelt, until soon the entire audience is on its feet, everyone applauding
warmly.
A few seconds later, Brian—the same Brian who’d shown up earlier that morning with Mr.
Rosetti at Fischer Hall—hurries up to replace me at the microphone, murmuring nervously,
“Uh, thank you? Thank you, Heather. Uh, thank you, everyone. Like, Dr., uh, Jessup said, if
you want, there will be refreshments in front of the fitness office upstairs. So. That’s all.
Good-bye.”
The youth choir, perhaps inspired by this news, bursts into song. Their choice?
“Kumbaya,” of course.
  
18
All the money in the world
Can’t buy this heart or ruin this girl
’Cause I know where I’m going and where I’ve
been
And that’s a road I won’t take again
“Can’t Buy Me”
Written by Heather Wells
“You know,” Pam Don’t-Call-Me-Mrs. Veatch says, her eyes pink from tears. “Owen spoke
very fondly of you. I believe that you and Garfield were probably the two people he was
closest to in the world at the…end.”
“Wow,” I reply. Which seems inadequate. But what else are you supposed to say when
someone tells you something like this? “Thank you, Pam.”
The thing is, if this is true, it’s completely unsettling. Until he’d been killed, I’d rarely, if
ever, given Owen Veatch a thought outside of working hours.
But I smile at the Mrs. Veatches, who’d gathered around me as soon as the memorial service
was over like a couple of hungry lionesses around a wounded gazelle. I tried not to look too
desperate to escape.
“Owen once told me that you were the fastest typist he’d ever seen,” Mrs. Veatch Number
One (Owen’s mom) says, with a watery smile.
Pam nods. “He did,” she confirms.
“Well,” I say. “Thank you, Mrs. Veatch. And…Pam.” Owen was obviously talking about
someone else. I type like twenty words a minute.
I look around the atrium we’re standing in—the main floor of the student athletic center,
which has been transformed into a temporary wake, with long tables set up for punch and
cookies. Of course, no one has bothered to close the sports center off to the students, so there
are still people in sweats walking through the mourners, showing IDs to the temporary
security officers (provided by Mr. Rosetti, and looking quite unlike our own security officers,
in that they are considerably larger and more menacing in appearance) in order to get in, then
glancing curiously at the floral wreaths and asking, “Is this some kind of ice cream social?”
I am doing my best to avoid certain parties who have shown up, but I don’t seem to be having
much success. This is made more than clear when Dad touches my arm.
“Um,” I say. “Hi, Dad.”
  
“Hi, honey,” he says. “Can I steal you for a minute?”
Great. I need this like I need…well, a bullet in the head.
“Sure. Pam—Dad, this is Pam, Owen’s former wife.”
“Pleased to meet you,” Dad says, pumping Pam’s hand. She’s changed from the creepy rag
doll sweatshirt to a subdued black suit. I introduce him to Mrs. Veatch Number One, as well,
then walk with him toward a large potted palm sitting by a huge glass wall, part of the atrium
that overlooks the school’s indoor Olympic-sized swimming pool, below. The air smells
pleasantly of chlorine. I have a feeling the scent is the only thing about this conversation
that’s going to be pleasant.
“Thanks for coming, Dad,” I say. “You didn’t have to. It means a lot that you did. You didn’t
even know Owen.”
“Well, he was your boss,” Dad says. “I know how much this job means to you. I don’t
exactly understand why it means so much. But I understand that you love it.”
“Yeah,” I say. “About that—”
He holds up a single hand, palm out. “Say no more.”
“I’m really sorry, Dad,” I say.
I mean it, too. I am sorry. Well, for Mandy Moore.
“I have to say, if I hadn’t heard that speech you just gave down there about your boss,” he
tells me, “I’d have thought—well, that you were making the biggest mistake of your life. But
after what you said about why you people do what you do…I think I get why you like this job
you do—sort of.”
“It’s just,” I say. “Writing about sippy cups? So not my thing. I did try. But I couldn’t make it
work. I just think what you and Larry proposed? I don’t think it would make me happy. I
want to break into songwriting someday, I think—but I want it to be on my terms. With my
songs, about my experiences. Not stuff about sippy cups. And if that doesn’t happen…I’m
okay with it. Because I like what I’m doing now. And I can wait. Really.”
“Well, I figured. But I thought it was worth a shot,” Dad says. “I’ll explain it to Larry.
Anyway. I wanted to say good-bye. I took my last box uptown this morning, and I walked
Lucy a half-hour ago. I won’t be back. Unless you invite me, of course. And I’ll always call
first before coming over…”
“Oh, Dad,” I say, giving him a squeeze. There’d been a time—not too long ago, actually—
when his presence in the house had driven me to the brink of insanity. But now that he was
leaving, the truth is, I was kind of bummed about it. “You know you can come over anytime
you want. You don’t need to call first—or wait on an invitation.”
“I’m not sure Cooper would agree with that,” Dad says into my hair, as he hugs me back.
“But that’s all right.”
  
“What do you mean?” I throw Cooper, standing over by the punch bowl with Tom, a startled
look over my dad’s shoulder. “What did Cooper say?”
“Nothing,” Dad says, as he lets go of me. “You be good, now. I’ll talk to you later.”
“No, I mean it,” I say. “What did Cooper—”
“Heather?
