Is this a dream? was the first thought that flashed through my mind. The area that surrounded me was dimly lit, casting me into near-darkness, and shadows were performing a strange kind of dance by the flicker of candlelight. Candles were everywhere, casting a strange glow across the room.
Where am I? I wondered. Apparently, I was in some kind of cave. The sound of lapping water was nearby, so I knew I had to be near a lake or stream. I looked down, and for the first time, I noticed what I was wearing. Good heavens! What was I wearing? I was in a gown with full, heavy skirts. The bodice was fitted around my stomach, and I felt something hard underneath it when I placed a hand there. A corset? I was filled with shock. A cool breeze grazed my neck, and I realized that my long, brown hair was swept up into a chignon. My feet felt somewhat cramped, and after lifting my skirts, a pair of heels were revealed.
Glancing around again and seeing no one should have made me feel uneasy. Of course, I had nothing to fear; I was simply dreaming, was I not? Still, this was a most strange dream; it was too real.
Shaking my head at my foolishness, I decided to take the initiative. "Hello?" I called into the eerie darkness.
"Hello, Christine," a rich tenor voice answered from somewhere in the shadows. I jumped slightly and turned. A man was leaning against the wall behind me with his arms crossed, smirking. I squinted my eyes with the effort of trying to see him more clearly.
"Who are you?" I stammered. "How do you know my name?"
He chuckled. "My, aren't we inquisitive?" I saw a strange golden glow. Were those his eyes? How very… odd. "This is a dream, so I know far more than just your name, Christine." His tongue uttered my name smoothly and slowly, sending chills down my spine. I blushed, feeling quite foolish. I was dreaming, wasn't I? Therefore, it was only logical that he would know me since this was all inside my mind. He was watching me interestedly as I considered his words. It bothered me that I could not see him but he could see me.
"Could you… would you mind stepping into the light? I can't see you."
"Many things exist that you will never see in this life. You know I am here; you do not need to see me."
His talk confused me but didn't distract my intentions. "Just the same, I would like to see you… please," I added, feeling a lack of courtesy in my request.
Another chuckle was my reward. "Silly child," he reproved lightly. "But, I will acquiesce to your request, my dear." With that, he slowly stepped towards me until he was in the light.
My first impression was that he was very tall. He was wearing, to my astonishment, a tuxedo (then again, I was wearing a fancy gown, so perhaps I should not have been so astonished) that was fitted over what appeared to be a thin frame. My eyes traveled up to his face. A white porcelain mask covered its right side from his hairline to right above his mouth. The mask probably should have disturbed me; masks usually do, but this one didn't seem menacing. The left side of his face - the side I could see - was handsome. He had golden eyes, which affirmed my earlier observation. His nose was straight, and his mouth was well-formed. Dark hair was groomed back from his face on his head. Yes, he was certainly a striking figure. But, upon closer inspection, I saw small lines around his eyes and mouth, obvious evidence that he was considerably older than myself. Not that this information made him any more repulsive physically; it simply added to the mystery of my dream.
He watched me the entire time I examined him. When my eyes rose to meet his again, he smiled. "Is your curiosity satisfied?" he inquired.
"Yes, thank you." I was beginning to feel embarrassed. Staring is considered to be rude behavior, after all. However, my shame vanished upon hearing his next words. "Now, I shall have my turn."
My face turned crimson, and I could feel it burning. "I believe you had your turn while your presence was unknown to me," I countered.
"Nonsense. Come, come. I am not going to hurt you." He slowly sauntered towards me. He moved with a grace that I deeply envied. Then again, that same grace could easily be attributed to a panther as it stalks towards its prey. He circled me once, and I felt the warmth of his breath on my neck. I raised an eyebrow once he was standing in front of me again as if to say, Are you finished yet? His own eyebrow raised, mocking me, and I exhaled with annoyance. I closed my eyes, wishing he would stop.
Suddenly, I felt a hand beneath my chin. My eyes opened as he gently tilted my face upwards to look into his eyes. All signs of mockery were gone now, leaving behind a combination of uncertainty and longing.
"Christine, I am not going to hurt you," he repeated. His hand moved to my cheek and carefully smoothed away a stray curl. Something electric shot through me. Why does this seem so real? I wondered. All I could do was return the man's gaze as he searched my features. "Please do not be afraid of me."
"I'm not," I murmured. A small smile graced his lips, and he opened his mouth as though to say more.
BEEP! BEEP! BEEP! Shocked, I looked around. He looked down, frowning again. What is going on? I wondered as I looked for the source of the sound. I turned to the man, confused. "What is happening?"
He sighed and looked at me again, sadness etched into his face. "It is time for you to wake, Christine."
BEEP! BEEP! BEEP! my alarm clock screamed at me. I groaned but sleepily complied with its command, hitting the "off" button as I moved into an upright position. I reluctantly left the loving warmth of my bed as I yawned. Shivering as my bare feet touched the cold ground, I made my way to the bathroom to prepare for my day.
That was some dream, I thought to myself as I stepped into the shower. Then, I pushed the dream out of my mind altogether as I ran through my mental to-do list. After showering and wrapping a towel around myself, I walked back into the bedroom and grabbed my cell phone, which had one unread text message for me.
"Good morning, beautiful. I was wondering if you would join me for dinner tonight. Call me and we'll arrange a time and place. I love you."
It was from Raoul, of course. While any other girl would have been thrilled by the prospect of Raoul de Chagny asking her to dinner, I'm not "any other girl." Instead of thrilled, I was annoyed. I had begun tentatively dating Raoul a few months earlier, so I guess he was my boyfriend. While he was a good friend, he seemed to be almost too good to be true. Yes, he was a real-life Prince Charming, but… well, he was so clingy. And, now he wanted to take me to dinner on the same night I had been hoping to study for an exam that would take place to following week. Still, I cringed at the vision of the result of declining Raoul's offer. It was a better course of action to accept, so I called him. His answering machine picked up, so he must have been in a meeting. Not that I minded; I really did not have time for a phone conversation. Truly, I felt bad for Raoul because I was not the best girlfriend.
"Hey, Raoul. I guess you have a meeting right now. I just wanted to let you know that I would be glad to meet you for dinner (That was a lie, but I thought it would be excusable since it was way nicer than saying 'I'm only going out with you tonight because I'm too much of a chicken to tell you no'). Let me know when and where you want to go. See you tonight."
Hurrying to dress and finish preparing myself, I grabbed my purse and left my apartment. It was already promising to be a very busy day.
I sighed contentedly as I curled up with a Dame Agatha Christie novel in the back of the bookstore. It was a slow day, which meant I was allowed to read. Eagerly turning the page, I devoured every word hungrily. Between work, college courses, and spending time with my boyfriend, finding time to indulge myself in simple pleasures such as reading was becoming hard.
Alas, my peaceful activity was soon interrupted as the book was snatched from my fingers. Turning, my angry eyes met those of Prince Charming.
"Raoul!" I said in surprise. He grinned and hugged me when I stood.
"I'm sorry I missed your call," he apologized. "I did have a meeting."
No kidding, I thought dryly. See what I mean? He had the most annoying habit of popping up unexpectedly. A dutiful girlfriend would have been overjoyed, but I have issues with people invading the precious little time I had for myself. Plus, taking my book away from me was no way to gain my affections; it was only an assured way of gaining my wrath. But, since he was my boyfriend, I let it slide that one time.
"It's fine," I told him. "How did it go?" My question was an awkward one. Raoul was the manager of a bank, and since words were always more interesting to me than figures, I rarely understood precisely what exactly his job entailed.
"The meeting went well. I think watching paint dry would have been more entertaining, though," he added with a roll of his eyes. I laughed, but my eyes flickered to the book that was still in his custody. I had been right in the middle of an exciting part, too. Raoul began to speak again, and I turned my attention back to him half-heartedly.
"So, I was thinking we could try that new grill over on Main Street. From what I hear, it's really good. Will 6:30 be good for you?"
No. "Yes, that sounds good," I answered aloud. Just then, a customer entered the store. Since my co-worker wasn't in sight, I excused myself and assisted the person. Raoul walked over once the customer was browsing and hugged me again. "I guess I should go. See you later."
"Okay," I replied. Finally, I took the book back from him. I am very protective of books, and since that particular one belonged to the store, I had to be extra-careful.
"Is something wrong?" asked Meg, my co-worker, after Raoul left. She was a petite blond, and she carried more energy than a three-year-old. Originally from Georgia, she still had a Southern accent that I thought was adorable, especially considering that I have a very neutral voice. It is just another fact that separates me from the rest of the world. But, I digress.
"What gave it away?"
Meg smiled. "Honey, your face is an open book when you think no one else is looking."
"That is such a comfort to hear," I muttered sarcastically as I straightened some books on one of the shelves.
"So, why the angry face?" she pushed.
I sighed. She obviously wasn't letting me off the hook. "I agreed to go to dinner with Raoul tonight."
"And, this bothers you because…?"
"It bothers me because I really need to study for an exam tonight. Besides, we just went to dinner two nights ago."
"He really cares about you, Christine," Meg said seriously. "Anyone can see it."
"I know, I know," I groaned, sinking into my chair once more. "But, I'm not experienced in the guy department. Raoul is my first boyfriend, so I'm not used to… to having to always be checking-in with somebody."
She looked confused by my confession. "Checking-in?"
"He texts me constantly, and if he is not texting, he is calling," I informed her. "What used to be 'Christine time' is now 'Raoul-and-Christine-time.' You saw how he came in here and took the book I was reading, right?" She nodded. "He does things like that all of the time. It drives me crazy."
She snickered. "Girl, that is not normal."
Now, I was the confused one. "What do you mean?"
"Girls typically flood the guys they like with texts, calls, and countless Facebook posts," she explained. "For that situation to be swapped so that the guy bugs the girl is abnormal."
"Again, thank you for your words of encouragement." That was, needless to say, not what I wanted to hear. "What should I do?"
Meg looked me straight in the eyes as she said, "I think you should break-up with him."
Oh, great. As if that would solve everything. He would insist on knowing why I wanted to end our relationship, and I, being the impatient person that I am, would finally scream, "Because you pester me!"
I checked my watch, which told me it was 4:15. "My shift ends in fifteen minutes; I should finish checking the shelves so I can leave. I have to find something to wear."
Meg raised her eyebrows but kept her objections to herself. Both of us knew that I would not break up with Raoul that night.
I am such a chicken.
Dinner came and went. I tried to be pleasant; honestly, I did. But, when I attempted to tell Raoul about the book I read had read earlier (the same book that he had taken from me in the bookstore), he blew me off with a "well that sounds nice." He ordered for me (how I hated it when he did that!), forgetting that I do not like pasta. And, when he wanted me to go to his apartment after our meal was over, I immediately said "no." Not that I thought he would try to convince me to do anything inappropriate, but still, it would not look right to his neighbors. Besides, the upcoming exam had me worried.
"I really do need to go home and study," I told him.
"Oh, okay." He quickly kissed me awkwardly. I have never been a physical person, and my eyes remained open. Fortunately, he stepped back before I embarrassed both of us by pulling away. "Let me know when you get there."
"I will," I promised. Then, after he walked me to my car, I drove back to my apartment. I locked the door, texted Raoul to let him know I was safe, and changed out of my dress into my beloved sweatpants and t-shirt. Turning my iPod on to play in the background, I finally opened my textbook. Unlike most college students, I actually enjoyed studying. I was working towards an English Literature degree, which is ironic considering I was dating a man with a head made for equations. Of course, my life itself is ironic, so perhaps Raoul suited me, after all.
I was back in the cave. The candles were lit, just like last time. The cool air made goose bumps appear on my bare arms, as the sleeves of my dress only covered my shoulders. I sighed and noticed that I was wearing a corset once again. Blast.
"Good evening," said a voice on my left. The man was back, still wearing formal attire and a mask.
"Good evening," I replied without hesitation. His voice put me at ease. It was a wonderfully rich and resonant. Absently, I thought that David's voice could not have sounded more beautiful.
"I realize that you never told me your name. What is it?"
He smirked. "You may call me Erik. However, I would prefer that we abstain from repeating another question-and-answer session. Come; I shall show you my home." He offered his hand, and I instantly took it. As flesh met flesh, I shivered, for his fingers were ice-cold. My, it felt so real! When I tried to pull away, his grip tightened. "It will not matter eventually," he assured me. I did not understand his words, but I allowed him to keep his hold on my hand. He led me to another cave that was connected to the first one. This one was also lit by candles. By one wall sat an organ, and what appeared to be sheet music was scattered everywhere. To add to the rooms intriguing appearance were beautiful porcelain and marble statues, and several paintings were somehow hanging from the stone wall. I could hardly take all of it in.
"So, are you a musician?" I asked.
He smiled. "Do you ever run out of questions, Christine?"
"You seem to be the only person who will answer my questions. I suppose that must be the punishment for being an illusion of my unconscious state," I murmured. We stopped walking, and I took my hand away. If he was offended, he did not say. He went to sit at the organ while I went to examine one of the paintings more closely.
"Yes, I am a musician," he answered suddenly. I turned to see that he was watching me. "I am also a composer, architect, artist, ventriloquist, and magician."
My mouth fell open. Never had I encountered a more accomplished person, even in my other dreams! I shook my head in wonder. Erik made me feel insignificant, for I knew that I had to be in the presence of a great genius.
"And, I suppose I can now add 'teacher' to my list of occupations," he continued as though unaware of my reaction. "Come here," he instructed, beckoning to me with his finger.
"Teacher?" I was beginning to grow suspicious. "What do you mean?"
"I am going to teach you to sing," he stated as though it was obvious.
"No."
Apparently, Erik was not used to people refusing to obey him. He frowned, and without knowing why, I stepped back. "Why ever not?" he asked impatiently.
Pain filled me, and my dad's face filled my mind. "I… I do not want to sing."
His expression softened. Rising, he moved until he was standing directly in front of me. "Is it because of your father?" he questioned gently.
I could not meet his eyes. Of course… this was a dream; he knew everything about me. I nodded, ashamed, and to my surprise, he took my hands in his. However, the discomfort of his skin's temperature was forgotten as he said, "I see. Christine, what if I would you that singing would bring you far more comfort than pain? Would you believe me?"
"I do not see how it could," I replied glumly, loath to say that I did not believe him.
"What do you think your father would want?"
I closed my eyes, forcing my tears back. I knew what Dad would want me to do. But, could I do it? I have already said that I'm a self-proclaimed coward. Yet, dreams are different than reality, right? Perhaps I could at least fulfill Dad's wishes in my sleep. Heaven knows I owed that and so much more to him. So, I opened my eyes and faced the truth. "He would want me to sing."
Without another word, Erik led me to the organ. He sat while I stood next to him unsteadily. Then, as he began to play, he whispered, "Sing."
I closed my eyes again, opened my mouth, and sang. As I sang, something happened. With each note, I sang less for Erik and more for my dad. For the first time in years, I could easily picture him in my mind. And, with each note, I was able to cry, "I love you! I miss you!"
For the first time since before he died, I felt complete.
Once the song ended, I opened my eyes to find Erik right in front of me. Before I could speak, his fingertips were lightly tracing my cheek. I randomly wondered how his hand simply caressing my face could feel so wonderful when I did not feel anything at all when Raoul kissed me. Then, ever so slowly, Erik lowered his face to mine. Automatically, my eyelids fluttered and shut in anticipation.
A shrill noise pierced the air, breaking through my reverie, and before his lips embraced mine, I opened my eyes… and the dream ended.
My first reaction was to press the snooze button. I did not want to wake yet; I was quite tempted to simply ignore the alarm and continue the dream. I could not remember the last time I had woken with in such a good mood. For the first time in countless days, I had felt close to my father. Though I had dreamt it, I was thankful for those few precious moments where I sang for him. Also, I was thankful to Erik, the mysterious masked man from my unconscious imaginings.
Erik…
Instantly, I was sitting upright in my bed, my mouth open in horror. Oh, no… he tried to KISS me! While Erik was only a figment of my dreams, it felt horribly wrong to picture myself kissing him. Raoul's face flashed through my mind. Why am I dreaming of another man, anyway! I have a BOYFRIEND, for crying out loud! Besides, I did not want Erik to kiss me; I did not even like it when Raoul kissed me. I have never been one for physical contact, which is another reason I wonder if I am messed up at times.
Shaking my head in disgust, I rose and turned off the alarm. Darn, I was running late. Switching the radio on as I hurriedly picked out an outfit, I listened to the news.
The weather forecast will be cloudy today and in the low 70s with a 45% chance of rain. So, you might want to carry an umbrella in your car. Onto the sports updates…
I sighed. It was going to be another boringly normal day.
"Achoo!"
"Here." Meg pushed a box of tissues that she kept behind the counter towards me.
"Thanks," I mumbled, grudgingly taking the tissues. I blew my nose and held the tissue away from me with the tips of my fingers. "Ewww, gross." Cringing, I threw the soiled tissue into the waste basket.
Meg laughed. "You okay?"
"Yeah. I think the cold weather and drizzle is tampering with my system." I looked out the window, and sure enough, the sky was prematurely dark and recipitation was dripping from the sky. I scowled. Raindrops on roses is not one of my favorite things.
Meg looked at me sympathetically. "Make sure you go to bed early," she advised. She turned as the door opened. "Look who's here to brighten your day," she added in a low voice. I followed her example to see Raoul entering the bookstore.
"Hey, baby. How are you?" he asked enthusiastically as he pulled me in for a hug. I almost groaned. Remember when I said I am not a physical contact kind of girl? Well, feeling like crap does not change that quality… it makes it stronger. I forced myself to return his hug, and fortunately, he pulled away first. I managed to return his smile, even if it was a tad bit sour. "I feel terrible. I think I have a cold."
Raoul laughed, and I winced. Great, I had a headache, too. "I don't suppose that going to a friend's house for a game night won't help, will it?"
"Probably not," I agreed.
"We could always just do something alone," he pressured.
I shook my head. Normally, I would have given in and gone on a date with him, but I was in a truly bad mood. So, I was able to be more blunt than usual. "No, Raoul; I really do not feel too well. I think I am going to just go to bed early tonight."
"Oh, okay." I could tell he felt slighted, but at the moment, I did not care. I needed time alone in order to make my cold go away. "I guess I'll call you later. Feel better soon."
"Thanks." I felt a bit guilty as he kissed my cheek - he must have been able to tell the night before that a real kiss was not appreciated - but he was gone before I could even consider saying anything. I turned to see Meg watching me. "What?"
"You still haven't broken up with him?"
"I might not be the best girlfriend, but I am not completely heartless. I really do care about Raoul."
"Uh-huh." She did not bother to hide the skepticism in her voice. "Sure."
If I am to be honest, I cannot say that I blame her for not believing me.
Once home, I changed into my sweats and t-shirt, relishing their warm and comfortable feel. Trudging into the bathroom, I filled a glass with water and took a bottle of benadryl out of the medicine cabinet. Before taking the pill, I eyed it wearily. If I took the medicine, I would fall asleep faster and sleep longer. Not that it interfered with my schedule; the next day was Saturday, so I could sleep late. However, did I really want to give myself so long to dream? I was still a bit weirded-out from my last one. But, I needed the medicine to fight my cold. With a sigh, I twisted the bottle cap open. Why not? It was better than sniffling and sneezing. As the medicine worked its magic, I pulled my covers over me and prepared myself for another bizarre dream.
"Using medicine to knock yourself unconscious is not a wise idea, Christine," said the silky voice behind me.
I spun to see Erik standing directly behind me. Goodness, how did he always manage to sneak up behind me unnoticed? It was creepy. "Do not do that!" I scolded. The grin I gave him afterwards took the sting out of my words.
His smile was my reward. "I would like for you to sing again," he requested. "Will you?"
I nodded. He extended his hand to me, but I ignored it. I did not want to touch him if I could help it. Matters were strange enough already. If he was insulted that I refused his offer, he took hid it with good grace, and I was thankful. Raoul was needy enough; the last thing I needed was some masked man in my dreams pouting if I refused to hold his hand.
Once again, he led me to his organ. Placing a score of music for me to see, he beckoned for me to stand behind the place where he was sitting. I gasped quietly as I read the notes. I am not the most skilled sight-reader, but even I could tell that the song was both high and difficult.
"I cannot possibly sing this," I protested.
"Of course you can," he replied calmly. "You will come in on this note." He played the note, and I groaned quietly. Something that looked suspiciously like a smile appeared on Erik's lips. "Are you ready?"
"No." His smile grew, and he played a flawless introduction. Nervously, I began. My assumptions about the song were correct. Yet, as the song continued, I relaxed from the sheer beauty of the song. No one could bring a song to life like Erik. He could make "Three Blind Mice" sound like a masterpiece. As soon as that song ended, he gave me more sheet music and began another. I grew confident as my voice soared, reaching heights I had never dreamed I would be able to reach. Then, when I was sure that music could not give anyone a greater level of ecstasy, Erik said, "Now, I am going to sing with you. We will sing the duet from Faust, "Il se fait tard!" I nodded, for I had heard the song numerous times, even though I was more interested in Broadway tunes than opera.
Words cannot justly describe the glory that is Erik's voice. It was more powerful than thunder, richer than velvet, and smoother than butter. Every emotion imaginable was in his voice when he so wished it. I was rather intimidated at first, feeling certain that my small voice was far too insignificant to mingle with his grand one. He sounded as though he could be the Angel of Music himself. But, I was not allowed to draw back; as the time came for me to sing, he quietly pleaded, "Join me, Christine." So, I steadied myself and joined him. As our two voices became one, it was as if our very souls collided. Even though I would eventually wake and leave him, I knew I would never be the same.
After the duet ended, we were silent for several moments. Then, he rose from his seat. "Would you like to sit down? I am sure you are tired. I have kept you singing for a long time now." I accepted his offer and shakily sat in the chair he indicated. He did not sit next to me; he was being careful to avoid touching me, too. He must have sensed my confusion when I did not take his hand earlier. I could feel his gaze on me, and I looked around the room, afraid to make eye contact with him.
"Your voice… I have never heard anything like it," I finally said, breaking the uncomfortable silence.
"Music has always been my idol. But, your voice… Christine, do you know what your voice does to me?" I shook my head. "Every note that is issued from your mouth is an inspiration to me. You, my dear, are immaculate."
I laughed. "No, no, Erik; you are quite mistaken. I am nowhere near as skilled as you say. I have much to work on before I could even think of calling myself great."

