A Revolution in Knowledge Sharing
The pressure to transform our institutions of learning continues. Virtually every enterprise and institution is grappling with the disruptions and opportunities caused by Web-enabled infrastructures and practices. New best practices, business models, innovations, and strategies are emerging, including new ways to acquire, assimilate, and share knowledge. Using technologies that are already developed or that will be deployed over the next five years, best practices in knowledge sharing not only are diffusing rapidly but will be substantially reinvented in all settings: educational institutions, corporations, government organizations, associations, and nonprofits. But institutions of learning are in a unique position to benefit from an added opportunity: providing leadership in e-knowledge.
E-knowledge finds expression in many shapes and forms in a profoundly networked world. It is not just a digitised collection of knowledge. E-knowledge consists of knowledge objects and knowledge flows that combine content, context, and insights on application. E-knowledge also emerges from interactivity within and among communities of practice and from the troves of tacit knowledge and tradecraft that can be understood only through conversations with knowledgeable practitioners. 
E-knowing is the act of achieving understanding by interacting with individuals, communities of practice, and knowledge in a networked world. E-knowledge commerce consists of the transactions based on the sharing of knowledge. These transactions can involve the exchange of digital content/context and/or tacit knowledge through interactivity. 
Transactable e-knowledge can be exchanged for free or for fee. E-knowledge is enabling not only the emergence of new best practices but also the reinvention of the fundamental business models and strategies that exist for e-learning and knowledge management. E-knowledge is technologically realized by the fusion of e-learning and knowledge management and through the networking of knowledge workers. 
Transactable e-knowledge and knowledge net-working will become the lifeblood of knowledge sharing. They will create a vibrant market for e-knowledge commerce and will stimulate dramatic changes in the knowledge ecologies of enterprises of all kinds. They will support a “Knowledge Economy” based on creating, distributing, and adding value to knowledge, the very activities in which colleges and universities are engaged. Yet few colleges and universities have taken sufficient account of the need to use their knowledge assets to achieve strategic differentiation. 
In “It Doesn’t Matter,” a recent article in Harvard Business Review, Nicholas G. Carr endorsed corporate leaders’ growing view that information technology offers only limited potential for strategic differentiation. Similar points are starting to be made about e-learning, and knowledge management has been under fire as ineffectual for some time. 
The truth is that e-learning and knowledge management can provide strategic differentiation only if they drive genuine innovation and business practice changes that yield greater value for learners. Carr’s article provoked a host of contrary responses, including a letter from John Seely Brown and John Hagel III. Brown is well-known for his insights into the ways in which knowledge sharing can provide organizations with a solid basis for strategic differentiation.
Bagpipe Finger Positions
There are nine notes most commonly played on the Great Highland Bagpipe. This page shows charts and diagrams for the hand and fingering positions for the bagpipe/practice chanter and explains how to play each of these individual notes as well as several less commonly played notes.
The nine basic notes are sounded using the eight finger holes found on the chanter. The holes are named for the note that is sounded when that hole is open. Located on the front of the chanter are seven holes. Located from the bottom up are Low-A up to High-G. Located on the back near the top is High-A. (Piper's typically don't refer to a "Low-G hole" as Low-G is sounded when all the finger holes are closed. If anything, such a term would apply to the opening the base of the chanter or, if present, the twin vents located to either side below the Low-A hole.)
Finger Locations
On the two hands, the only fingers not used to sound notes are the left little finger — completely unused, if a piper were to choose a finger to be amputated, this would be it! — and the right thumb which simply holds the chanter. Positioning the hands, the left index finger covers the High-G hole, and the right index finger covers the D hole. The rest of the fingers fall into place. Note: This information is oriented to the standard "right-handed" hand positions. Much like guitars, many left-handed people opt to learn the pipe pipes as a right-hander. One left-handed piper I know wishes he had, in fact, learned as a right-hander. (In his case, simply for uniformity with other band members.) That said, it is perfectly acceptable to play left-handed.
Finger Hand Arm Positioning
A few things to know. The chanter is not played with the fingertips, which is a common beginner's error. With the left (top) hand, the holes are covered with the pads of the fingers in front of the joint. With the right (bottom) hand, the holes are covered behind the first joint, with the exception of the little finger which is played with the pad in front of the joint. The top thumb's pad covers the High-A hole. The bottom thumb holds the chanter a little lower than is typically natural, that is, it rests in the vicinity of where the C finger is on the opposite side of the chanter, perhaps a little lower or higher, but definitely below the level of the D finger. The fingers are kept relatively straight, though not locked stiff, just ever so slightly curved. The back of each hand should be parallel with the back of the forearm, not bent in, not bent out. You should be able to rest a ruler along the back of both the arm and the hand without a gap.
When you raise fingers to play notes, they should be raised approximately the thickness of a finger. To be safe, if you were to pass a finger under that raised finger, the passing finger should brush both the chanter and the raised finger. A little higher is fine, you want the finger high enough that the note will sound clearly, but not have "fly away finger syndrome"—, you need to keep control. Also a raised finger should stay above its hole so it's ready to come straight down to close the hole, not having to move forward, backward or side to side to meet the hole.
A quick word about that unused high-hand little finger. That little finger will "float" with the E finger, just tagging along with the ride. You don't want to make any effort to force it somewhere it doesn't naturally go. It should have a relaxed natural slight curl. If it goes up when raising the E finger, that's fine. If it goes down when lowering the E finger, that's fine. If you find that it bumps into anything, either the chanter or your other fingers, then you probably need to angle your top hand more—imagine that your index finger is the pivot and you back your E finger away from the chanter a bit. Just ignore it and let it do what it wants to do. After a while, you'll never even think about it.
Gateway Academy Pre-Sessional Courses
Our pre-sessional courses are ideal for students who have a conditional place at a British university, but who need to achieve a certain level of English in order to be accepted.  The course aims to provide students with the English language and study skills that they need in order to be successful at university or another academic establishment.  It is important to note that completion of the course does not guarantee students entrance into a university.  It is necessary for students to show during the course that they have understood the information and skills that they have been taught, and can incorporate it into their work.
Pre-sessional students at Gateway Academy will benefit from:
Small class sizes (no more than 10 students per class)
Twenty three hours of tuition per week
Individual support and tutorials
Regular guest lecturers
The use of the Academy's study and recreational facilities, including the Language Library, the computer suite, and the academy's sports facilities.
A varied social programme including evening entertainments and weekend excursions to popular tourist attractions and cities such as Stonehenge, Oxford and Stratford-on-Avon.
The course offers a holistic approach to learning, and covers reading, writing, speaking and listening skills.  During the course, students will receive instruction on important techniques such as summary-writing, analysing essay titles, organising writing, note-taking in lectures, giving seminars and making presentations.  Students will gain experience in working both individually and in groups.  As part of the course, all students will work towards a 5000 word project in their own field of study.  Students will receive guidance from their tutors on how best to conduct research and write it up effectively.  Students will also work towards a presentation on the same subject.
There is no final examination.  Students are assessed continuously, taking into account their attendance, successful completion of assignments and participation in class.  Students will be given a full report on their progress at the end of the course.  Students need to be aware that the course involves a great deal of coursework, which will require students to manage their time effectively.
Gateway Academy offers three pre-sessional courses.  A five-week course beginning in August is available for advanced level students; a ten-week course beginning in July is available for upper-intermediate students.  Intermediate level students should take our twenty week course beginning in May.  Intermediate level students get a two-week break in July. 
The Shock of the Truth
Throughout history, there have been instances in which people have been unwilling to accept new theories, despite startling evidence.  This was certainly the case when Copernicus published his theory - that the earth was not the centre of the universe.
Until the early 16th century, western thinkers believed the theory put forward by Ptolemy, an Egyptian living in Alexandria in about 150 A.D.  His theory, which was formulated by gathering and organizing the thoughts of the earlier thinkers, proposed that the universe was a closed space bounded by a spherical envelope beyond which there was nothing.  The earth, according to Ptolemy, was a fixed and immobile mass, located at the centre of the universe.  The sun and the stars, revolved around it.
The theory appealed to human nature.  Someone making casual observations as they looked into the sky might come to a similar conclusion.  It also fed the human ego.  Humans could believe that they were at the centre of God's universe, and the sun and stars were created for their benefit.
Ptolemy's theory, was of course, incorrect, but at the time nobody contested it.  European astronomers were more inclined to save face.  Instead of proposing new ideas, they attempted to patch up and refine Ptolemy's flawed model.  Students were taught using a book called The Sphere which had been written two hundred years previously.  In short, astronomy failed to advance.
In 1530, however, Mikolaj Kopernik, more commonly known as Copernicus, made an assertion which shook the world. He proposed that the earth turned on its axis once per day, and travelled around the sun once per year.  Even when he made his discovery, he was reluctant to make it public, knowing how much his shocking revelations would disturb the church.  However, George Rheticus, a German mathematics professor who had become Copernicus's student, convinced Copernicus to publish his ideas, even though Copernicus, a perfectionist, was never satisfied that his observations were complete. 
Copernicus's ideas went against all the political and religious beliefs of the time.  Humans, it was believed, were made in God's image, and were superior to all creatures.  The natural world had been created for humans to exploit.  Copernicus's theories contradicted the ideas of all the powerful churchmen of the time.  Even the famous playwright William Shakespeare feared the new theory, pronouncing that it would destroy social order and bring chaos to the world.  However, Copernicus never had to suffer at the hands of those who disagreed with his theories.  He died just after the work was published in 1543.
However, the scientists who followed in Copernicus's footsteps bore the brunt of the church's anger.  Two other Italian scientists of the time, Galileo and Bruno, agreed wholeheartedly with the Copernican theory.  Bruno even dared to say that space was endless and contained many other suns, each with its own planets.  For this, Bruno was sentenced to death by burning in 1600.  Galileo, famous for his construction of the telescope, was forced to deny his belief in the Copernican theories.  He escaped capital punishment, but was imprisoned for the rest of his life. 
In time however, Copernicus's work became more accepted.  Subsequent scientists and mathematicians such as Brahe, Kepler and Newton took Copernicus's work as a starting point and used it to glean further truths about the laws of celestial mechanics.
The most important aspect of Copernicus' work is that it forever changed the place of man in the cosmos.  With Copernicus' work, man could no longer take that premier position which the theologians had immodestly assigned him. This was the first, but certainly not the last time in which man would have to accept his position as a mere part of the universe, not at the centre of it.
Self-Catering Holiday Cottages in the Lake District National Park
At Lilliput Farm we have three cottages for rent as self-catering holiday accommodation. 
We have been awarded 4 stars in the Holiday Accommodation Accreditation Service for excellence in quality and service.
Dairymaid’s Loft is situated above the barn under the eaves. It is the largest of the properties, having one double bedroom with en suite, a twin room and a single room. There is also a sofa-bed in the living room. There is a large kitchen, a living room, dining room and newly-fitted bathroom. Please note that, since the entire property is on the first floor, and the stairs are steep, the accommodation is not suitable for the elderly, the infirm, pets and very young children. 
Shepherd’s Rest is suitable for up to four occupants. There is a double bedroom and a twin room with bunk-beds. There is a small kitchen and a large living room. There is a shower room with separate WC. The accommodation is spread over two floors. Pets are allowed, but we request that they are kept downstairs.
Haymaker’s Den is a one-bedroom cottage at ground floor level. There is also a sofa bed in the living room which can sleep two people. It has a large living area comprising a kitchen/diner and living space. There is a ramp leading up to the property, and the large bathroom is fitted so as to be suitable for wheelchair users and people who use walking aids. We ask that pets are not brought into this property.
All the properties have: a television, CD player and DVD player. Dairymaid’s Loft and Haymaker’s Den have Sky Television. Shepherd’s Rest has wi-fi access. Cots can be provided to all properties, but please note that Dairymaid’s Loft may be unsuitable for toddlers and crawling babies. All properties have a washing machine, fridge freezer and microwave. Dairymaid’s Loft also has a dishwasher and a tumble drier.
The cottages share an outside area with swings, a patio and barbecue area. Outdoor furniture is available in the barn.
All cottages have electric power. None are fitted with gas. Electricity is paid via a meter. You will receive a £10 worth of electricity at the beginning of your stay with our compliments (£5 for short breaks). After that, you will need to add money to the meter. Shepherd’s Rest also has a wood-burning stove. Guests will receive one complimentary basket of wood. Subsequent baskets can be purchased for £2 each. Please help yourself to wood in the barn and put money in the honesty box.
Cottages can be booked by the week or for short breaks. Short breaks are either Fridays – Mondays (3 nights) or Mondays to Fridays (4 nights). Discounts are available in the low season (October to March). Couples staying in Dairymaid’s Loft and Shepherd’s Rest can also get a two-person discount. Week-long bookings are on a Saturday – Saturday basis. We regret that it is not possible to accommodate arrivals on Fridays. We ask that guests arrive after 3pm and vacate the property by 10.30 on their departure date, so allow us to clean and prepare the properties for the next guests.
To make a booking, you will need to make a deposit of fifty percent up front. The remainder is payable one month before your arrival. (If you make a booking less than a month in advance, you must pay the entire amount up front). If you need to cancel your stay, you will receive a complete refund if you contact us 30 days in advance of your booking. Cancellations made two weeks in advance will receive a 60% discount. We regret that we cannot give a discount for cancellations made less than two weeks in advance.
Border Regulations and Visa Applications
If you wish to come to the United Kingdom, either as a visitor or a student, you may need to apply for a visa. Visas vary according to your age, the length of your stay and your level of English study.
The following visa types are available:
Child Student
Child Visitor
Adult Student
Student Visitor
Prospective Student
The UK operates a points-based system which will decide whether or not you can apply for a visa. You need 40 points in order to apply for a visa. You will obtain 30 points if you have confirmation from the college, university or school that you have been accepted on a course. Your chosen place of studies must be registered on the UK Border Agency list of sponsors. You can obtain a list by clicking on the link below.
You will need to earn a further 10 by demonstrating that you cover the cost of your study fees and living costs. In doing so, you can rest assured that you will avoid financial difficulties while you are studying.
If you wish to extend your study experience in the UK, you will need to pass a further points-based assessment to ensure that you have been accepted on another course and that you can afford to pay the fees and living costs.
To make your UK study experience even richer, you may be eligible for a work and study visa. Getting a job while you are studying can improve your language skills and enhance your CV by showing that you are flexible, team-oriented and well-organised. You will also be able to get a reference from your employer which will help you gain employment in the future. Before accepting a job, you must find out whether your visa allows you to work in the UK, and the maximum number of hours you can work each week from the UK Border Agency. Most UK places of study have a career service which will help you to access job listings, write a CV or application form and prepare for a job interview.
To work in the UK you will need a National Insurance number. This number is used to deduct money from your earnings to fund benefits for the unemployed, incapacitated and retired. To obtain a national insurance number, you will need to attend an interview. You can make an appointment for an interview by calling 0845 600 0643 during usual office hours. You will need to take proof of identity, proof of your right to work in the UK and written proof of your job offer. You may start work before your number is issued as long as your employer deducts the appropriate national insurance contributions from your pay.
Long-haul flights get longer
Long-haul flights have just got longer, with a non-stop flight from Singapore to New York now in operation. But 18 hours in the air creates its own challenges. A lot of preparation goes into the ultra long haul flight. The aircraft is specifically designed for the journey with more space and extensive entertainment services. The flight crew are also specially trained.
The seasoned traveller is also more aware of the health risks associated with a flight that covers as much as 16,600-kilometers (10,310-miles) in distance. Exposure to lower oxygen levels for up to 18, maybe 20, hours is abnormal for the human body. With deep vein thrombosis (DVT) the problem really starts occurring after 12 hours (in-flight). This could lead to an increase in heart attacks.
Doctors believe prevention is better than cure when it comes to in-flight health. Passengers on ultra long range flights need to be provided with flight socks and, if necessary, tablets for thinning the blood. It is not just the health and vitality of the passenger that is at stake on a flight of this length, but also that of the flight crew. "They give us training on fatigue management and how to adjust to the local time in New York and to exercise, as well as take care our diet and eat lightly in-flight," says Linda Wu, a stewardess on Singapore Airlines.
However, passengers are trading in health concerns for convenience. An extra- long flight means passengers do not need to break up their journey and change planes. "They like to board once, de-plane once. It is saving time," says James Williams from Singapore Airlines.
"From Los Angeles to Singapore, passengers are saving two and a half hours. And to New York passengers are saving up to four hours in flying time." Thai Airways is also launching a non-stop service to New York from Bangkok next June to compete with Singapore Airlines. It is planning a similar service to Chicago. Cathay Pacific, Continental, Qantas and Emirates Airlines also offer flights that are more than 14 hours in duration. However, there is still a question of whether longer non-stop flights will become popular. "They will certainly have a role in the future of aviation, there is no doubt about it. People will prefer to fly non-stop if it is available," says Chris Johnson, an airline analyst. "But we are reaching the limits. These markets are at the very margin of aviation. Most airlines still fly in the eight to 12-hour sector. This is still where the biggest volume in traffic is." Avery believes that geography will determine the demand for the ultra long-haul flight and that worldwide appeal for this type of flight is unlikely. "Asia is where the demand is for the ultra long-haul flight. They are connecting Asian cities to the U.S. East Coast, which is the big market," he explains. "The routes that connect most places that European business travellers go do not need a capacity and endurance to fly 18-hours -- this is the same for U.S. carriers."
Rain and Hail
Dark clouds were in the sky. The sun went down. The weather got cold. The wind started to blow. Leaves blew off the trees. Paper flew through the air. People buttoned their jackets. The rain started to fall. At first it was quiet. Then it got louder. It was a storm. The rain was very loud. The man couldn't hear his TV. He turned up the volume. Now he could hear his TV. He looked outside his door. He looked at the rain. It was pouring off his roof. It was a flood. Then he saw lightning. Then he heard thunder. It was a very cold night. The rain changed to hail. The hail was very noisy. He turned up the TV volume again. Now he could hear his TV again. He watched TV for a while. Then he looked outside again. All the cars were white. The street was white. The ground was white. The hail covered everything. The hail looked just like snow. He wanted to make a big snowman. But you can't make a snowman out of hail. You can only make a snowman out of snow.
A Cat Scratch
Kenny was crying. "Why are you crying?" Mom asked Kenny. "The cat scratched me," said Kenny. The cat had scratched Kenny on his hand. Kenny showed his hand to his mom. The scratch didn't look too bad. It wasn't a deep scratch. Mom went to the kitchen. Kenny went with her. She turned on the water. She put his hand under the water. She washed the scratch with soap. She rinsed off the soap. She took a Band-Aid out of the kitchen cabinet. She put the Band-Aid on the scratch. She said he would be okay. "Why did the cat scratch you?" she asked. Kenny said he didn't know why the cat scratched him. Just then, Kenny's little sister walked into the kitchen. She knew why the cat scratched Kenny. "I know why Tiger scratched him, Mommy," she said. "He was pulling Tiger's tail!"
SpaceX to try Sunday after scrubs two days in a row
CAPE CANAVERAL – The Space Coast's quietest rocket countdown in recent memory ended Saturday with the same result as a more public production on Friday: Scrub.
Weather prevented SpaceX from launching a Falcon 9 rocket and six commercial satellites from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, one day after technical problems kept the mission grounded.
Orbcomm, which operates the satellites SpaceX is boosting into space, said late Saturday night that a 5:30 p.m. launch opportunity had been confirmed for this evening.
On Saturday, SpaceX never explained the cause of fluctuating rocket tank pressures that halted Friday's countdown, or what it had done to fix the problem.
It provided no Webcast, as it had Friday, and no online updates or tweets throughout the launch window on the countdown's status, leaving media and other observers with little real-time information.
Launches of U.S spy satellites typically are more transparent, but SpaceX was not obliged to include the public in a commercial launch for Orbcomm Inc.
Orbcomm, a New Jersey-based provider of machine-to-machine communications, was the first to confirm the launch attempt was a "go" on Saturday morning and again late Saturday for today's attempt.
The company promised to post updates as the launch neared, but never did.
With late afternoon thunderstorms buffeting the Cape, SpaceX moved the liftoff time to the end of the launch window at 6:39 p.m. – evident on a countdown clock at nearby Kennedy Space Center.
But the weather never cleared. SpaceX did not discuss the rocket's performance.
The Eastern Range was believed to be about to start scheduled maintenance that could limit launch opportunities for at least a week.
If for some reason today's launch attempt was waved off, it's not clear where the launch stands.
The Air Force's 45th Space Wing, which operates the range, has not responded to questions.
Once planned in April, the mission to launch the first six of 17 satellites for Orbcomm has suffered multiple delays due to issues with the rocket, spacecraft and range.
If SpaceX can get this mission launched, it hopes to launch another commercial satellite from Cape Canaveral in mid-July.
Big Bang Theory Interchanging between Criticism and Support
The Big Bang theory, which has suffered an inconsistent flux between support and criticism, is about to receive the latter of the flux – intense scrutiny. (Photo : NASA)
The Big Bang theory, which has suffered an inconsistent flux between support and criticism, is about to receive the latter of the flux - intense scrutiny.
In March, a team of astronomers announced that they caught primordial gravitational waves in the cosmic microwave background, which they believed was left over from the Big Bang. This was one of the findings that helped best solidify the Big Bang theory's standing in the study of the creation of the universe.
Like Us on Facebook 
Some scientists have expressed skepticism and they believe that the finding translates to patterns of dust created by our own Milky Way galaxy.
"It could be possible all the signal was coming from dust. Not that one could be sure, but that was a possibility. That was a big letdown for me," said Astrophysicist Matias Zaldarriaga of the Institute for Advanced Study in New Jersey.
In a new study, led by John Kovac of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, notes some new information about the Milky Way dust. The team behind the discovery of the primordial gravitational waves remain supportive of their theory, but they also realize they can't rule out the possibility of foreground dust contamination.
"I think the issue is still unresolved . . . the issue being whether what they measured comes from gravity waves in the early universe or from the dust," said Alan Guth, a theoretical physicist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who came up with the inflation idea in the late 1970s. "I expect it to be resolved fairly soon," he said.
"One should clearly understand that we are talking about the cutting edge of scientific exploration," said Andrei Linde, a theoretical physicist from Stanford University. "Whatever we learn will be hugely important for the further development of cosmology, and we are going to know the final answer before too long."
