Wasn’t it? 
Why had the dark templar shown up when it had? Why had it destroyed that... that bizarre mutated ultralisk? 
Why had the protoss shown up at all? 
Jake raced through the darkening night, screaming in frustration inside his head. Crap! That damn thing wants something from me! And by the time he reached camp, he knew exactly what. 
Lassatar stood for a moment, immobilized by what he had done. Drained. Empty. Vulnerable. 
He’d used the power of the xel’naga artifact. Or perhaps the xel’naga artifact had used him: he wasn’t certain. 
But he understood it now. 
The xel’naga artifact was a psionic lens. And something more. Something terrifying. As a lens, the xel’naga artifact amplified and focused the psionic powers of whoever wielded it. But more than that, the xel’naga artifact linked itself to the bearer so that even if he had no powers of his own, he had the psionic power of the xel’naga artifact at his command. 
In that moment of attack, Lassatar had as much psionic power at his disposal as an archon. Perhaps even more than an archon. The xel’naga artifact tapped into enormous energy fields, but to control those fields required all the energy of the bearer. The artifact had sucked away all of his strength and energy and used them to modify its own psionic 
abilities, focusing, aiming, and blasting the zerg attackers into the heart of a psionic firestorm. 
What would be possible if this artifact was in the hands of one who was even more powerful in the psionic arts—an archon perhaps? 
And beyond that, the discovery that vast psionic fields could be tapped and focused and applied, even by those who had no psionic powers—what would that knowledge do to the protoss as a race? 
As a guardian of past mysteries, Lassatar had to ask himself, whom was he protecting these relics from? Whom was he protecting them for? 
He could not answer that question. Not here, not now. 
It was necessary to deal with this situation first. And the xel’naga artifact was a part of it now. The ancient relic not only expanded the power to act; it also expanded the power to see. 
His understanding of this impossible zerg colony had been expanded with a sudden disturbing impact. What had not been evident in the smaller life-forms—the banelings and the zerglings—was terrifyingly obvious in the gigantic mutated ultralisk that had come pushing down the tunnel. 
His acolytes had created zerg with identities. 
Now, he understood what his acolytes had done. And why. Could the Queen of Blades be subverted? This was the laboratory for their test. They had psionically isolated the mountain. The Queen of Blades did not know this colony was here. This colony did not know there were any other zerg. They were alone and terrified. The isolation field kept them mind-trapped in an agoraphobic nightmare. 
That was why they’d failed. The terror was the error. 
When individual creatures develop identity, they also develop a need to continue that identity—a need to survive. The greater the sense of individuality, the greater the imperative for survival. The greater the need for individual survival, the less control the Queen of Blades would have over the particles of its dominion. 
This experiment—by isolating the colony, the acolytes had changed the internal balance of the species dramatically. Whatever else they were trying to do, they had already succeeded... and failed. 
The zerg did not retreat. Even in defeat, they made their enemies pay for every meter of advance with blood. But if and when the individual members of a nest could see they had no chance at surviving an assault, they would recognize the end of identity. Now separated into individuals, with each zerg creature experiencing its own specific self-awareness, the colony would be fractured. Would all the different zerg-things recognize their imminent destruction? Would they hesitate? Would they panic? Would they flee? 
That seemed a logical conclusion. 
But the acolytes had lacked the experience to see how that premise was too simple. They had assumed that creating identities within the zerg would infect them with cowardice. 
It was an understandable error. 
An easy error to make without deeper thought. The error was only obvious in retrospect, but Lassatar’s underlings, the architects of this horror, had died for their presumption. 
They had not finished thinking it through. Emotions are biological in nature—a visceral reaction to intellectual processes. Fear comes from the perception of danger. Some fears are based on immediate circumstances; other fears have less basis, coming instead from an emotional consideration of still-forming possibilities. 
The lower end of the emotional spectrum—grief, fear, hostility—was a vast symphony of interrelated moments. The upper end of the spectrum—joy—was a much narrower range. The experimenters had not considered that the zerg were capable of experiencing any of the positive feelings. As mindless as ants, they would have no evolutionary need for joy. And so Lassatar’s acolytes had not addressed that possibility in their hypotheses. 
Lassatar could have warned them. He’d seen it clearly in the humans he’d encountered. Because joy was so rare in their lives, it was extremely precious to them. So they sought it any way they could. 
He’d seen it in the encounter when he’d found the xel’naga artifact and met the little girl; there had been a human reaper there as well. The little girl had found joy in family, whereas the reaper had taken joy only in killing. It was the only joy the reaper had known or understood. 
These zerg here, they didn’t know how to take joy in family. Instead, they had learned to take joy in assault. They would enjoy attacking; they would even enjoy dying in an attack. This would make them even more ferocious, vastly more dangerous in ways still unrealized. What other unintended consequences were yet to be discovered? 
For a moment, Lassatar considered the possibility that the experimenters might have succeeded in ways they had not envisioned. Perhaps the nature of identity was such that its further development might trigger schisms within the zerg Swarm, like the civil war that had occurred when the Queen of Blades had challenged the cerebrates. But the Queen of Blades had overwhelmed the cerebrates, and the zerg had become even more dangerous. What if these things overwhelmed the Queen of Blades, and the zerg became even more deadly? 
He couldn’t take the risk of finding out. He could not let this colony grow. If these creatures reached critical mass, they would spill out beyond the limits of the psionic isolation of the mountain. And if that happened, they would spread beyond this world— 
Lassatar had to recognize that he did not have the resources to destroy this nest. 
But the human did. Lassatar could use him. 
Many humans had a primitive form of psionic ability, a rough animalistic quality that they understood as feelings without evidence—hunches, forebodings, and unexplainable moments of non-causality. Some rare humans had more powerful abilities, enough to be recognizable, controllable, even trainable. The humans had even established an academy for training their psionic warriors, whom they called ghosts. 
This human had the rudimentary psionic ability of the rest of the species. But just as the xel’naga artifact had temporarily made it possible for Lassatar to have the powers of an archon, so had the device awakened and expanded this human’s potential as a psionic receiver. 
The human wouldn’t hear it as communication, no, but the human would experience it, and that should be enough. 
It had been a simple matter for Lassatar to overlay the psionic blast from the xel’naga artifact with the imagery of an exploding volcano. The zerg would fear it. 
The human would experience it another way. 
Jake didn’t know how he knew, but he knew. 
As if he had walked every meter of the mountain himself, he knew every tube and tunnel and chamber. As if he had plugged directly into the psionic creep himself, he knew where every tendril reached and spread. As if he had become some kind of organic bio-computer, he understood exactly what would be needed to trigger this volcano and destroy this nest. As if he had suddenly stepped out of his own life and were looking down on himself from above, like some kind of meta-God, he knew exactly what had happened. 
“Damn that protoss!” he said. “That uninvited, mind-meddling, gilded son of a coat hook!” He slammed the controls on the vulture, bringing it skidding down toward the hangar of his puddle-jumper. “Well, I don’t have to—” But even before he finished the thought, he knew he was wrong. 
“Crap,” he said. 
Whatever thoughts or feelings or images had been slammed into his brain, the imperative was too strong. He did have to. And he knew it. Not as knowledge, but as a way of being. It was as if he had become a whole other kind of person. He couldn’t leave this world until he had destroyed the zerg... or died in the effort. 
“All I wanted was a little piece of quiet!” he shouted at the sky, at the last shreds of the scouring storm. “Is that too much to ask for?” He raised both his arms; he shook his fists. “Protoss! Super-storms! Giant zerg things?! Infested volcanoes? Okay, I get it! The karmic chicken always comes home to roost! But isn’t this overkill?!” 
In reply, lightning crackled loudly overhead. So close, it staggered him, nearly knocking him to the ground. 
“Okay, okay, I get it,” Jake said, straightening up again. “I don’t get an opinion.” 
Inside his puddle-jumper, his base of operations, he powered up the main display and established a link to the colony ship. This was going to take some time. He had a lot to calculate. How much he would need and where to put it for maximum effect. The colony ship had been equipped with everything necessary to start a self-sufficient mining colony. It was loaded with some very powerful machines, including some serious explosives. Not quite enough, but a good start... 
Jake already had a pretty good geologic survey from his own probes, but it wasn’t good enough—not until he augmented it with the super-knowledge the protoss had given him. 
The scouring super-storms had weakened the windward side of the cone, and the mountain trembled a little bit more under each onslaught. Parts of the cone were weak. Here, here, and here—just above the tree line on the northwest side, there were seven lava tubes, each pointing toward the sleeping core of the volcano. He could drop cargo pods of mining supplies from the colony ship and then jury-rig probes with the explosives from those supplies. If he could collapse all the lava tubes simultaneously, he should be able to collapse that side of the mountain and trigger a collapse of the caldera. 
He ran some scenarios. Some worked, but not as well as he wanted. He ran more. He began to see the scale of the problem. He was trying to blow up a mountain. The mountain wanted to blow up, but it wasn’t ready to blow up. He had to make it ready. That would require a lot of energy. 
That was the part he didn’t like. “Damn that protoss! Damn its eyes!” Jake growled. “What right does it have to put stuff into my head anyway?! I didn’t put anything into its head; all I did was say hi! What is that? An invitation to be mind-raped?” 
On the other hand, he did have to admit, it was fun looking for ways to kill zerg. Almost joyous. Every time a simulation collapsed the volcano, he laughed out loud. “Ha! If I could do this in real life, I’d wet my shorts!” 
“All right,” he said to himself. “Let’s see just how big a bang I can make here!” His hands moved across the display; his fingers danced across the keyboard; he snapped out 
commands in an almost frenzied haste. “I’ve never made love to a volcano before: this is just foreplay. But when I’m done, it’s gonna be the best damn bang of all!” 
Jake was well aware that he was possessed—owned—by this single-minded drive. He had no choice in the matter. But the more he worked, the more the feelings of satisfaction, pleasure, even ecstasy, rose up in him. Even if he could have stopped, he didn’t want to anymore. He was enjoying this too much. 
The problem was that whatever technology he employed, the zerg might seek it out and destroy it. So that had to be part of the plan too—timing the assault with more resources than they could find in time. 
Hmm... 
Yes. 
Decoys. He’d have to put down decoys to distract the zerg. He’d want them all as close to the target zone as possible, but away from the triggering mechanisms. 
Right. Now he had to look at his resources again, how to apply them. He ran more simulations, more scenarios. He could do some serious damage to Mauna Koala, as he was starting to think of the mountain, but in only 54% of the simulations did he trigger the kind of massive explosion he was seeking. That wasn’t enough. He needed to obliterate the entire island, nothing less. 
If the island survived, if even one seed of the zerg biology survived... the entire effort would have been wasted. 
He ran more scenarios, feeling both frustrated and joyous. The work was fun; each run-through brought him closer to a solution, but the slow progress annoyed him, defied the imperative that drove him, made him angry with impatience. “Dammit, Mister Dark Templar,” Jake said to the unseen protoss. “If you could give me the problem, why couldn’t you also give me the solution?!” 
There was a way to do it. In his mind, Jake called it Operation Overkill. It would work, but it would cost him most of his resources. The colony ship had nine cargo pods loaded with carefully packaged crates of explosives, as well as mining robots known as Mobile Utility Lunar Excavators. He’d have to bring down all of them, at least one for each vulnerable tunnel. It would take him at least a day to secure the explosives to the probes 
and maybe another day to place each one in a lava tube. He’d have to send other probes up ahead to make lots of noise in each channel. If he worked straight through without sleeping— 
It might work. It had to work. As soon as he had a clear idea in mind, he sent a signal to the colony ship to drop all nine of those pods. The closest launch window was just over the horizon. The pods would be here in two hours. He’d have to go to work on them immediately, but it was doable. He’d have to reconfigure the probes, adjust the power-to-weight ratios for the additional mass of the explosives, and synchronize the detonators to a multi-band signal. 
The geological surveys revealed that the mountain had several deep cracks from water erosion, quakes, and ancient eruptions. Jake could drive the MULEs into those chambers to shoot liquid explosives down those cracks, all the way to the core. Then he could detonate everything at once. 
If it worked, if everything went off as planned, the caldera would collapse in upon itself, the northwest wall would sheer away from the side of the volcano’s cone, and the whole mountain would explode outward. The force released by the blast would shatter the rest of the cone and cause it to fall in upon itself in a secondary collapse. And if the underlying magma was sufficiently roiled, the whole island could disappear in a ball of fire. Jake would have to observe from some distance away. 
Like, from orbit. 
Although maybe... 
The smallest island in the chain was still more than big enough for him. And it was 300 kilometers north and west of the blast zone. Once the zerg were gone, he might be able to stay there in peace. 
He ran more scenarios, looking for optimal clusters of action patterns. It soon became obvious that there were a lot of small variations on a theme, but all of them were still variations on Operation Overkill. 
Jake sighed. “Crap. There is no easier way. There is no better way.” 
He began to issue the necessary orders. 
“I hope that damn protoss is smart enough to get out of the way. I’m not going looking for him.” 
Lassatar became aware of the human’s plan as soon as the first cargo pod dropped in. By the time Jake had driven the first MULEs into the tunnels, he understood exactly how the human planned to act and had safely removed himself from the volcano, leaving behind just enough pieces of protoss technology to keep some of the zerg occupied. The human needed them to be distracted. 
There was something more he had to do as well. The zerg would feel the vibrations; they would investigate what was happening. As soon as the zerg colony discovered mining robots pumping liquid explosives into the crevices, it would attack them. 
But these zerg—infected with identity—when they realized the scale of Jake’s activity, it would unnerve them, it would disturb the entire colony. There was no way to predict how individuals would react. Some of them might panic, sensing the possibility of personal danger. They might flee. Lassatar knew he had to keep them all inside the volcano if the human’s plan was to work. 
So he waited. And listened for their emotions. When the zerg sensed the danger, they would fear. When he felt their fear, he would act— 
And then, at last, it began. 
One zergling discovered a MULE pumping liquid explosive into a deep crack in the volcanic surface. It screamed; it leapt and writhed in agony as the volatile acidic fluid penetrated its carapace. Another hesitated as an explosive-carrying probe maneuvered itself up a lava tube; it backed away from the unfamiliar presence. A third encountered a large package that ticked ominously; struck with uncharacteristic curiosity, the creature carried it down deeper into the nest for further examination. 
One after another, separate zerglings returned to the creep, and as they pooled their experiences, all of their separate encounters with unknown pieces of human technology, the cumulative effect was uncertainty, then anxiety, then the first disturbing feelings of an emotion previously unknown to the colony—upsetting in individuals, but overwhelming when magnified through the collective. Even those zerg that had not experienced a direct contact became frightened by the collective unease of their fellows. 
The panic began. Some zerglings froze, paralyzed. Others fled for deeper tunnels, while still more searched for escape upward. Most massed for counter-assault. But against whom? 
And then the other pounding began. Inside their racing brains, inside their chitinous shells, inside their pumping flesh, inside them all, a steady hammering of confusion and light that staggered them where they stood. Some collapsed; some froze; some shuddered in paralysis. Banelings felt it as impact and exploded in place. The heart of the colony was caught in a massive seizure. The full power of the xel’naga artifact. 
And then it got worse. The pounding grew louder, became a slamming of psionic force. The tendrils of creep everywhere in the mountain recoiled from the rock. The zerg colony was caught in the center of a maelstrom of fear. It experienced something no other zerg colony had ever experienced before: overwhelming terror! Every beast in the mountain shrieked and screamed, moaned and gasped, flailed wildly and thrashed, caught in dreadful seizures, incapable of coherent action. 
And then— 
The probes ignited their jets, one after the other, in a synchronized cascade of fire. Walls of superheated flame blasted up the lava tubes, up into the heart of the slumbering core, heating the volcanic rock toward its melting point. 
Thunder shook the volcano. Clouds of dust rose from its sides. Rocks pattered and fell in little avalanches up and down the steep sides of the cone. Little avalanches became bigger avalanches. 
And then, when the mountain could get no hotter, the first blasts went off. One section went off prematurely, a half-second too soon, but the rest went off as planned, in a perfectly predetermined series of explosions. 
The mountain shuddered. But nothing happened. 
From his distant vantage point, Jake’s first word was the inevitable “Crap!” 
And then... an abrupt puff of smoke. Another shudder. A continuing shudder. A growing shudder. The mountain trembled. It began to shake. The northwestern wall of the volcano began to bulge outward, swelling alarmingly... and then it blew. 
A sudden great roar that didn’t stop, it only grew as columns of dust and fiery rock rose high into the air, higher and higher, a tower of horror and destruction. Flaming rocks shot upward and outward, disappearing into the blue above; the eruption would continue for hours, dropping molten lava into the steaming sea for kilometers around. 
“Holy crap!” Jake said. He felt suddenly joyous. Incredibly, astonishingly joyous. He wanted to dance. He felt an overwhelming rush of emotion surging up through him, so powerful it left him weak and shaking. 
And then he felt clear and free and liberated... and still joyous. But a different kind of joy. Not just the joy of victory, but a deeper joy, an internal joy—the joy of peace. 
His plan had worked. He knew it. He didn’t know how he knew, but he knew. “Nothing’s going to escape that,” and he realized he’d said it aloud. He looked at his heads-up display. “Maybe not even me.” 
He turned toward his vulture. 
His dark templar ally was standing there. 
“Hi,” Jake said. 
The protoss did not respond. 
Jake thought he knew why. 
All that psionic blasting—he’d felt it too, even at this distance. It must have exhausted the dark templar’s strength. 
Jake stared in wonder. If the protoss was exhausted, was it also vulnerable? Was this a sign of its trust? That it knew that Jake would not take advantage of its momentary weakness? 
Or was Jake just imagining? 
And then the protoss lifted a hand. The gesture was a greeting. 
That was it, what Jake was feeling—an emotion that he couldn’t name. Gratitude. Partnership. Kinship? Something. 
“I, uh—I guess—” 
The dark templar seemed to be studying him. And for a moment, Jake also knew fear. Had he outlived his usefulness? 
But no. 
The protoss must be feeling the same thing. 
Jake grinned. “So, uh—this could be the beginning of a beautiful friendship, eh?” 
The protoss finished its examination of Jake and vanished. 
“Or... I guess not,” Jake said. 
He shrugged. 
He turned around and looked at the growing tower of smoke and flame still rising high above him. “Yeah, time to get out of here.” 
He wasn’t sure where he would go next, but this time it would have to be someplace with people. 
That was lucky! 
Jake steadied his footing against the next attack. This time he aimed the AGR-14 directly into the tube, focusing his shots deep upward, spacing them in a steady beat, all the time watching the ammunition count on his heads-up display. He was okay for the moment, and he had two more ammo-belts. How many zerglings could he kill? Would it be enough? Or would they ultimately overwhelm him? 
Three more! Six! Shrieking with unholy noises, claws scraping and scrabbling against the glassy rock. Another grenade! He splattered them into flaming bits. The sound of the explosions was hideously loud. The fire was bright and dazzling against the larger darkness of the chamber. The dust grew thicker and flickered with sparks. 
But all those hours in the simulators hadn’t been wasted. He’d played solo; he’d played with and against AI; he’d played on teams. He’d done it for the vicarious adventure, never thinking he’d one day be confronting real zerglings, and here came more of them! Too many! Screeching like nightmares! 
Jake lost count. He fired blindly into the mass, brightly shattering the last one half a meter from where he stood. He wouldn’t survive the next time— 
Did he have time to scramble up to the entrance of the tube? He glanced up and back... and almost missed the next zergling rush. No, he didn’t have time. Three, four, six more. Another incendiary grenade. He splattered them quickly, loudly. He was getting the 
hang of this now. But he was running out of ammo. This was not going to end well. He could smell it now—the stink of fire and something worse, the fetid smell of charred and burning monsters, the stench of all the separate odors of internal alien biology overlaid with death and char and things he couldn’t identify. And it was getting harder to see in the thickening flickering air. 
Jake had an idea—a last desperate one. Maybe he could block the entrance to the upper half of the lava tube. Could he collapse it without bringing down a shower of boulders on his own head? He had three grenades left. Could they do the job? Only one way to find out. He just needed a few seconds— 
Sixteen zerglings later, the noise of his fire was still echoing up and down the lava tube, and stinking and smoldering bits of flesh still splattered and burned against the walls. He realized he wasn’t going to have those few seconds. 
“Crap!” 
Not unless he did something else. 
He aimed deep up into the tunnel and let loose a barrage of blistering fire. The tracers streaked up through the darkness, leaving red and yellow streamers of light. Distant shrieks came rattling back to him. Clouds of dust and small avalanches of pebbles and zerglings’ body parts came pouring out of the tunnel. 
He might have time. He had to flip the protective cover off this switch, arm that one—too many controls, why hadn’t he installed just the one button?—oh yeah, safety. He’d have to rethink that decision. Later. There, it was done! And just in time! He aimed up the tunnel, at its roof, and fired. Once, twice— 
The grenades arced up the tunnel, disappearing into darkness, screeching into ultra-sound, and then— 
The blast came hammering back down, a wall of chest-slamming noise, knocking Jake backward against the wall of the chamber. A short sharp shock, followed by a rumbling, quaking, uneasy rattling of something deep, and then the first few boulders came tumbling down out of the lava tube, a small avalanche of rubble. Enough to bury the last few pieces of immortals and stalkers. Enough to raise the floor of the chamber. Enough to make Jake’s ears pop from the change in pressure. 
“Shoulda thought of that in the first place.” He nodded, satisfied. He took a heavy breath, a second, a third. Amazed that he was still alive, amazed at his own presence of mind, he gasped aloud, still in battle-shock. There was something about these zerglings. They didn’t resemble the ones in the simulator. They were— Jake shook his head; he’d have to let the computers work on this one. He listened to his heart pounding in his chest and thought, I should stop for a minute. I need to rest— 
He glanced around the chamber, the swirling dust, the flickering sparks, the splatters of burning biology; he couldn’t think of the zerglings as flesh or meat or even insects. They were... just bits of disgusting fetid-smelling stuff. It depressed him. The universe was supposed to be a place of wonder and marvels. This was... Hell. The fire underground. Eternal damnation. 
Jake caught himself short. “Okay, stop. Enough of this angst. Time to get the fekk out of here.” He turned to the uneven slope of rock between him and the lower half of the lava tube and began climbing. He was halfway up when he heard the sounds. 
“Oh, crap. Come on! Give me a break!” He shouted it to no one in particular, just the universe at large. Fate. Destiny. Whatever. “Stop with the perverse practical jokes already.” 
He scrambled up to the next rocky ledge, still two meters short of his goal. He turned to face the opposite side of the chamber. 
“Oh, crap—” 
The whole wall was shaking. Something was digging from the other side, something large. Something very large. He could hear the noise of its claws scraping hard against the rock. This was something else. 
Jake’s heads-up display showed an area of disturbance larger than the locus of destruction for any weapon he had. Translation: “Whatever it is, you’re outnumbered.” 
“This is not fun,” Jake shouted at the universe. “I’ve had fun. This isn’t it.” 
Still, he adjusted the targeting of his weapon to a much narrower circle of fire. Maybe he could injure the damn thing. Or maybe it had a vulnerable spot—not likely, but he could hope—and if he could find it, who knows? He might even kill it. 
The opposite wall was shaking now, dust rising from its surface, small rocks falling away, cracks opening up, and larger rocks crackling and tumbling. He steadied himself 
against the dark wall behind him, anchoring his stance. He had maybe one good shot. He kept his flashlight centered— 
Something broke through, a dark swinging blade like a giant machete! Then another, swinging back from the other side! Rocks fell away, crashing into darkness. The thing was enormous! Too big to be real! What the hell was he looking at? 
Where to aim? The mouth? The eyes? The thing was swinging its head back and forth, swinging two huge scythe-like bones. If there was a mouth there, he couldn’t see it. Maybe take out one of its knees, and it would tumble forward and down—? Oh, hell, just fire already— 
But before he could even squeeze the trigger, something exploded behind his eyes, between his ears, inside his head: the backwash of a psionic blast, blinding, deafening, searing, screaming inside him in a thousand colors and shapes and smells and sounds and cold fire blazing outward—beautiful and painful and delicious and hideous all at the same time— 
Standing in front of him, the dark templar, arms outstretched, crackling fire leaping from its four-fingered hands, lightning flickering across the volcanic chamber, echoing, screeching, violently burning and charring and splattering the staggering beast on the opposite wall. It screeched and writhed in hideous agony. 
Jake stared, astonished. 
At last, the thing stumbled forward, tumbled forward, fell headfirst into the rocks beneath, thudding like an avalanche of crusty flesh. The overwhelming stench of it roiled and scourged. It would have been an ultralisk... if it hadn’t been mutated into something even larger and more ferocious. 
“Holy crap,” said Jake. “Holy, holy crap.” 
The protoss stood motionless before the giant dead thing, watching it collapse in upon itself. Flickers of blue lightning danced across its back, finally evaporating, leaving only smoke and dust and rubble. Pebbles continued to spatter down from the roof of the chamber. Jake looked up, his flashlight probing for a possible collapse. 
But no, the chamber held. 

