That is a challenge. It arouses opposition and makes the listener
want to battle with you before you even start.
It is difficult, under even the most benign conditions, to change
people's minds. So why make it harder? Why handicap yourself?
If you are going to prove anything, don't let anybody know it. Do it
so subtly, so adroitly, that no one will feel that you are doing it. This
was expressed succinctly by Alexander Pope:
Men must be taught as if you taught them not And things unknown
proposed as things forgot.
Over three hundred years ago Galileo said:
You cannot teach a man anything; you can only help him to find it
within himself.
As Lord Chesterfield said to his son:
Be wiser than other people if you can; but do not tell them so.
Socrates said repeatedly to his followers in Athens:
One thing only I know, and that is that I know nothing.
Well, I can't hope to be any smarter than Socrates, so I have quit
telling people they are wrong. And I find that it pays.
If a person makes a statement that you think is wrong - yes, even
that you know is wrong - isn't it better to begin by saying: "Well,
now, look, I thought otherwise, but I may be wrong. I frequently
am. And if I am wrong, I want to be put right. Let's examine the
facts."
There's magic, positive magic, in such phrases as: "I may be wrong.
I frequently am. Let's examine the facts."
Nobody in the heavens above or on earth beneath or in the waters
under the earth will ever object to your saying: "I may be wrong.
Let's examine the facts."
One of our class members who used this approach in dealing with
customers was Harold Reinke, a Dodge dealer in Billings, Montana.
He reported that because of the pressures of the automobile
business, he was often hard-boiled and callous when dealing with
customers' complaints. This caused flared tempers, loss of business
and general unpleasantness.
He told his class: "Recognizing that this was getting me nowhere
fast, I tried a new tack. I would say something like this: 'Our
dealership has made so many mistakes that I am frequently
ashamed. We may have erred in your case. Tell me about it.'
"This approach becomes quite disarming, and by the time the
customer releases his feelings, he is usually much more reasonable
when it comes to settling the matter. In fact, several customers have
thanked me for having such an understanding attitude. And two of
them have even brought in friends to buy new cars. In this highly
competitive market, we need more of this type of customer, and I
believe that showing respect for all customers' opinions and treating
them diplomatically and courteously will help beat the competition."
You will never get into trouble by admitting that you may be wrong.
That will stop all argument and inspire your opponent to be just as
fair and open and broad-minded as you are. It will make him want to
admit that he, too, may be wrong.
If you know positively that a person is wrong, and you bluntly tell
him or her so, what happens? Let me illustrate. Mr. S---- a young
New York attorney, once argued a rather important case before the
United States Supreme Court (Lustgarten v. Fleet Corporation 280
U.S. 320). The case involved a considerable sum of money and an
important question of law. During the argument, one of the Supreme
Court justices said to him: "The statute of limitations in admiralty law
is six years, is it not?"
Mr. S---- stopped, stared at the Justice for a moment, and then said
bluntly: "Your Honor, there is no statute of limitations in admiralty."
"A hush fell on the court," said Mr. S---- as he related his experience
to one of the author's classes, "and the temperature in the room
seemed to drop to zero. I was right. Justice - was wrong. And I had
told him so. But did that make him friendly? No. I still believe that I
had the law on my side. And I know that I spoke better than I ever
spoke before. But I didn't persuade. I made the enormous blunder of
telling a very learned and famous man that he was wrong."
Few people are logical. Most of us are prejudiced and biased. Most of
us are blighted with preconceived notions, with jealousy, suspicion,
fear, envy and pride. And most citizens don't want to change their
minds about their religion or their haircut or communism or their
favorite movie star. So, if you are inclined to tell people they are
wrong, please read the following paragraph every morning before
breakfast. It is from James Harvey Robinson's enlightening book The
Mind in the Making.
We sometimes find ourselves changing our minds without any
resistance or heavy emotion, but if we are told we are wrong, we
resent the imputation and harden our hearts. We are incredibly
heedless in the formation of our beliefs, but find ourselves filled with
an illicit passion for them when anyone proposes to rob us of their
companionship. It is obviously not the ideas themselves that are dear
to us, but our self-esteem which is threatened. ... The little word
"my" is the most important one in human affairs, and properly to
reckon with it is the beginning of wisdom. It has the same force
whether it is "my" dinner, "my" dog, and "my" house, or "my" father,
"my" country, and "my" God. We not only resent the imputation that
our watch is wrong, or our car shabby, but that our conception of
the canals of Mars, of the pronunciation of "Epictetus," of the
medicinal value of salicin, or of the date of Sargon I is subject to
revision. We like to continue to believe what we have been
accustomed to accept as true, and the resentment aroused when
doubt is cast upon any of our assumptions leads us to seek every
manner of excuse for clinging to it. The result is that most of our socalled
reasoning consists in finding arguments for going on believing
as we already do.
Carl Rogers, the eminent psychologist, wrote in his book On
Becoming a Person:
I have found it of enormous value when I can permit myself to
understand the other person. The way in which I have worded this
statement may seem strange to you, Is it necessary to permit
oneself to understand another? I think it is. Our first reaction to most
of the statements (which we hear from other people) is an
evaluation or judgment, rather than an understanding of it. When
someone expresses some feeling, attitude or belief, our tendency is
almost immediately to feel "that's right," or "that's stupid," "that's
abnormal," "that's unreasonable," "that's incorrect," "that's not nice."
Very rarely do we permit ourselves to understand precisely what the
meaning of the statement is to the other person. (*)
----
[*] Adapted from Carl R. Rogers, On Becoming a Person (Boston:
Houghton Mifflin, 1961), pp. 18ff.
----
I once employed an interior decorator to make some draperies for
my home. When the bill arrived, I was dismayed.
A few days later, a friend dropped in and looked at the draperies.
The price was mentioned, and she exclaimed with a note of triumph:
"What? That's awful. I am afraid he put one over on you."
True? Yes, she had told the truth, but few people like to listen to
truths that reflect on their judgment. So, being human, I tried to
defend myself. I pointed out that the best is eventually the cheapest,
that one can't expect to get quality and artistic taste at bargainbasement
prices, and so on and on.
The next day another friend dropped in, admired the draperies,
bubbled over with enthusiasm, and expressed a wish that she could
afford such exquisite creations for her home. My reaction was totally
different. "Well, to tell the truth," I said, "I can't afford them myself.
I paid too much. I'm sorry I ordered them,"
When we are wrong, we may admit it to ourselves. And if we are
handled gently and tactfully, we may admit it to others and even
take pride in our frankness and broad-mindedness. But not if
someone else is trying to ram the unpalatable fact down our
esophagus.
Horace Greeley, the most famous editor in America during the time
of the Civil War, disagreed violently with Lincoln's policies. He
believed that he could drive Lincoln into agreeing with him by a
campaign of argument, ridicule and abuse. He waged this bitter
campaign month after month, year after year. In fact, he wrote a
brutal, bitter, sarcastic and personal attack on President Lincoln the
night Booth shot him.
But did all this bitterness make Lincoln agree with Greeley? Not at
all. Ridicule and abuse never do. If you want some excellent
suggestions about dealing with people and managing yourself and
improving your personality, read Benjamin Franklin's autobiography -
one of the most fascinating life stories ever written, one of the
classics of American literature. Ben Franklin tells how he conquered
the iniquitous habit of argument and transformed himself into one of
the most able, suave and diplomatic men in American history.
One day, when Ben Franklin was a blundering youth, an old Quaker
friend took him aside and lashed him with a few stinging truths,
something like this:
Ben, you are impossible. Your opinions have a slap in them for
everyone who differs with you. They have become so offensive that
nobody cares for them. Your friends find they enjoy themselves
better when you are not around. You know so much that no man can
tell you anything. Indeed, no man is going to try, for the effort would
lead only to discomfort and hard work. So you are not likely ever to
know any more than you do now, which is very little.
One of the finest things I know about Ben Franklin is the way he
accepted that smarting rebuke. He was big enough and wise enough
to realize that it was true, to sense that he was headed for failure
and social disaster. So he made a right-about-face. He began
immediately to change his insolent, opinionated ways.
"I made it a rule," said Franklin, "to forbear all direct contradiction to
the sentiment of others, and all positive assertion of my own, I even
forbade myself the use of every word or expression in the language
that imported a fix'd opinion, such as 'certainly,' 'undoubtedly,' etc.,
and I adopted, instead of them, 'I conceive,' 'I apprehend, ' or 'I
imagine' a thing to be so or so, or 'it so appears to me at present.'
When another asserted something that I thought an error, I deny'd
myself the pleasure of contradicting him abruptly, and of showing
immediately some absurdity in his proposition: and in answering I
began by observing that in certain cases or circumstances his opinion
would be right, but in the present case there appear'd or seem'd to
me some difference, etc. I soon found the advantage of this change
in my manner; the conversations I engag'd in went on more
pleasantly. The modest way in which I propos'd my opinions procur'd
them a readier reception and less contradiction; I had less
mortification when I was found to be in the wrong, and I more easily
prevaile'd with others to give up their mistakes and join with me
when I happened to be in the right.
"And this mode, which I at first put on with some violence to natural
inclination, became at length so easy, and so habitual to me, that
perhaps for these fifty years past no one has ever heard a
dogmatical expression escape me. And to this habit (after my
character of integrity) I think it principally owing that I had earned so
much weight with my fellow citizens when I proposed new
institutions, or alterations in the old, and so much influence in public
councils when I became a member; for I was but a bad speaker,
never eloquent, subject to much hesitation in my choice of words,
hardly correct in language, and yet I generally carried my points."
How do Ben Franklin's methods work in business? Let's take two
examples.
Katherine A, Allred of Kings Mountain, North Carolina, is an industrial
engineering supervisor for a yarn-processing plant. She told one of
our classes how she handled a sensitive problem before and after
taking our training:
"Part of my responsibility," she reported, "deals with setting up and
maintaining incentive systems and standards for our operators so
they can make more money by producing more yarn. The system we
were using had worked fine when we had only two or three different
types of yarn, but recently we had expanded our inventory and
capabilities to enable us to run more than twelve different varieties.
The present system was no longer adequate to pay the operators
fairly for the work being performed and give them an incentive to
increase production. I had worked up a new system which would
enable us to pay the operator by the class of yam she was running at
any one particular time. With my new system in hand, I entered the
meeting determined to prove to the management that my system
was the right approach. I told them in detail how they were wrong
and showed where they were being unfair and how I had all the
answers they needed. To say the least, I failed miserably! I had
become so busy defending my position on the new system that I had
left them no opening to graciously admit their problems on the old
one. The issue was dead.
"After several sessions of this course, I realized all too well where I
had made my mistakes. I called another meeting and this time I
asked where they felt their problems were. We discussed each point,
and I asked them their opinions on which was the best way to
proceed. With a few low-keyed suggestions, at proper intervals, I let
them develop my system themselves. At the end of the meeting
when I actually presented my system, they enthusiastically accepted
it.
"I am convinced now that nothing good is accomplished and a lot of
damage can be done if you tell a person straight out that he or she is
wrong. You only succeed in stripping that person of self-dignity and
making yourself an unwelcome part of any discussion."
Let's take another example - and remember these cases I am citing
are typical of the experiences of thousands of other people. R. V.
Crowley was a salesman for a lumber company in New York. Crowley
admitted that he had been telling hard-boiled lumber inspectors for
years that they were wrong. And he had won the arguments too. But
it hadn't done any good. "For these lumber inspectors," said Mr.
Crowley, "are like baseball umpires. Once they make a decision, they
never change it,"
Mr. Crowley saw that his firm was losing thousands of dollars
through the arguments he won. So while taking my course, he
resolved to change tactics and abandon arguments. With what
results? Here is the story as he told it to the fellow members of his
class:
"One morning the phone rang in my office. A hot and bothered
person at the other end proceeded to inform me that a car of lumber
we had shipped into his plant was entirely unsatisfactory. His firm
had stopped unloading and requested that we make immediate
arrangements to remove the stock from their yard. After about onefourth
of the car had been unloaded, their lumber inspector reported
that the lumber was running 55 percent below grade. Under the
circumstances, they refused to accept it.
"I immediately started for his plant and on the way turned over in
my mind the best way to handle the situation. Ordinarily, under such
circumstances, I should have quoted grading rules and tried, as a
result of my own experience and knowledge as a lumber inspector,
to convince the other inspector that the lumber was actually up to
grade, and that he was misinterpreting the rules in his inspection.
However, I thought I would apply the principles learned in this
training.
"When I arrived at the plant, I found the purchasing agent and the
lumber inspector in a wicked humor, both set for an argument and a
fight. We walked out to the car that was being unloaded, and I
requested that they continue to unload so that I could see how
things were going. I asked the inspector to go right ahead and lay
out the rejects, as he had been doing, and to put the good pieces in
another pile.
"After watching him for a while it began to dawn on me that his
inspection actually was much too strict and that he was
misinterpreting the rules. This particular lumber was white pine, and
I knew the inspector was
thoroughly schooled in hard woods but not a competent,
experienced inspector on white pine. White pine happened to be my
own strong suit, but did I offer any objection to the way he was
grading the lumber? None whatever. I kept on watching and
gradually began to ask questions as to why certain pieces were not
satisfactory. I didn't for one instant insinuate that the inspector was
wrong. I emphasized that my only reason for asking was in order
that we could give his firm exactly what they wanted in future
shipments. wanted in future shipments.
"By asking questions in a very friendly, cooperative spirit, and
insisting continually that they were right in laying out boards not
satisfactory to their purpose, I got him warmed up, and the strained
relations between us began to thaw and melt away. An occasional
carefully put remark on my part gave birth to the idea in his mind
that possibly some of these rejected pieces were actually within the
grade that they had bought, and that their requirements demanded
a more expensive grade. I was very careful, however, not to let him
think I was making an issue of this point.
"Gradually his whole attitude changed. He finally admitted to me that
he was not experienced on white pine and began to ask me
questions about each piece as it came out of the car, I would explain
why such a piece came within the grade specified, but kept on
insisting that we did not want him to take it if it was unsuitable for
their purpose. He finally got to the point where he felt guilty every
time he put a piece in the rejected pile. And at last he saw that the
mistake was on their part for not having specified as good a grade as
they needed.
"The ultimate outcome was that he went through the entire carload
again after I left, accepted the whole lot, and we received a check in
full.
"In that one instance alone, a little tact, and the determination to
refrain from telling the other man he was wrong, saved my company
a substantial amount of cash, and it would be hard to place a money
value on the good will that was saved."
Martin Luther King was asked how, as a pacifist, he could be an
admirer of Air Force General Daniel "Chappie" James, then the
nation's highest-ranking black officer. Dr. King replied, "I judge
people by their own principles - not by my own."
In a similar way, General Robert E. Lee once spoke to the president
of the Confederacy, Jefferson Davis, in the most glowing terms about
a certain officer under his command. Another officer in attendance
was astonished. "General," he said, " do you not know that the man
of whom you speak so highly is one of your bitterest enemies who
misses no opportunity to malign you?" "Yes," replied General Lee,
"but the president asked my opinion of him; he did not ask for his
opinion of me."
By the way, I am not revealing anything new in this chapter. Two
thousand years ago, Jesus said: "Agree with thine adversary
quickly."
And 2,200 years before Christ was born, King Akhtoi of Egypt gave
his son some shrewd advice - advice that is sorely needed today. "Be
diplomatic," counseled the King. "It will help you gain your point."
In other words, don't argue with your customer or your spouse or
your adversary. Don't tell them they are wrong, don't get them
stirred up. Use a little diplomacy.
• Principle 2 - Show respect for the other person's opinions. Never
say, "You're wrong."
~~~~~~~
3 - If You're Wrong, Admit It
Within a minute's walk of my house there was a wild stretch of virgin
timber, where the blackberry thickets foamed white in the
springtime, where the squirrels nested and reared their young, and
the horseweeds grew as tall as a horse's head. This unspoiled
woodland was called Forest Park - and it was a forest, probably not
much different in appearance from what it was when Columbus
discovered America. I frequently walked in this park with Rex, my
little Boston bulldog. He was a friendly, harmless little hound; and
since we rarely met anyone in the park, I took Rex along without a
leash or a muzzle.
One day we encountered a mounted policeman in the park, a
policeman itching to show his authority.
"'What do you mean by letting that dog run loose in the park without
a muzzle and leash?" he reprimanded me. "Don't you know it's
against the law?"
"Yes, I know it is," I replied softy, "but I didn't think he would do any
harm out here."
"You didn't think! You didn't think! The law doesn't give a tinker's
damn about what you think. That dog might kill a squirrel or bite a
child. Now, I'm going to let you off this time; but if I catch this dog
out here again without a muzzle and a leash, you'll have to tell it to
the judge ."
I meekly promised to obey.
And I did obey - for a few times. But Rex didn't like the muzzle, and
neither did I; so we decided to take a chance. Everything was lovely
for a while, and then we struck a snag. Rex and I raced over the
brow of a hill one afternoon and there, suddenly - to my dismay - I
saw the majesty of the law, astride a bay horse. Rex was out in
front, heading straight for the officer.
I was in for it. I knew it. So I didn't wait until the policeman started
talking. I beat him to it. I said: "Officer, you've caught me redhanded.
I'm guilty. I have no alibis, no excuses. You warned me last
week that if I brought the dog out here again without a muzzle you
would fine me."
"Well, now," the policeman responded in a soft tone. "I know it's a
temptation to let a little dog like that have a run out here when
nobody is around."
"Sure it's a temptation," I replied, "but it is against the law."
"Well, a little dog like that isn't going to harm anybody," the
policeman remonstrated.
"No, but he may kill squirrels," I said.
"Well now, I think you are taking this a bit too seriously," he told me.
"I'll tell you what you do. You just let him run over the hill there
where I can't see him - and we'll forget all about it."
That policeman, being human, wanted a feeling of importance; so
when I began to condemn myself, the only way he could nourish his
self-esteem was to take the magnanimous attitude of showing
mercy.
But suppose I had tried to defend myself - well, did you ever argue
with a policeman?
But instead of breaking lances with him, I admitted that he was
absolutely right and I was absolutely wrong; I admitted it quickly,
openly, and with enthusiasm. The affair terminated graciously in my
taking his side and his taking my side. Lord Chesterfield himself
could hardly have been more gracious than this mounted policeman,
who, only a week previously, had threatened to have the law on me.
If we know we are going to be rebuked anyhow, isn't it far better to
beat the other person to it and do it ourselves? Isn't it much easier
to listen to self-criticism than to bear condemnation from alien lips?
Say about yourself all the derogatory things you know the other
person is thinking or wants to say or intends to say - and say them
before that person has a chance to say them. The chances are a
hundred to one that a generous, forgiving attitude will be taken and
your mistakes will be minimized just as the mounted policeman did
with me and Rex.
Ferdinand E. Warren, a commercial artist, used this technique to win
the good will of a petulant, scolding buyer of art.
"It is important, in making drawings for advertising and publishing
purposes, to be precise and very exact," Mr. Warren said as he told
the story.
"Some art editors demand that their commissions be executed
immediately; and in these cases, some slight error is liable to occur. I
knew one art director in particular who was always delighted to find
fault with some little thing. I have often left his office in disgust, not
because of the criticism, but because of his method of attack.
Recently I delivered a rush job to this editor, and he phoned me to
call at his office immediately. He said something was wrong. When I
arrived, I found just what I had anticipated - and dreaded. He was
hostile, gloating over his chance to criticize. He demanded with heat
why I had done so and so. My opportunity had come to apply the
self-criticism I had been studying about. So I said: ''Mr. So-and-so, if
what you say is true, I am at fault and there is absolutely no excuse
for my blunder. I have been doing drawings for you long enough to
know bet-ter. I'm ashamed of myself.'
"Immediately he started to defend me. 'Yes, you're right, but after
all, this isn't a serious mistake. It is only -'
"I interrupted him. 'Any mistake,' I said, 'may be costly and they are
all irritating.'
"He started to break in, but I wouldn't let him. I was having a grand
time. For the first time in my life, I was criticizing myself - and I
loved it.
" 'I should have been more careful,' I continued. 'You give me a lot
of work, and you deserve the best; so I'm going to do this drawing
all over.'
" 'No! No!' he protested. 'I wouldn't think of putting you to all that
trouble.' He praised my work, assured me that he wanted only a
minor change and that my slight error hadn't cost his firm any
money; and, after all, it was a mere detail - not worth worrying
about.
"My eagerness to criticize myself took all the fight out of him. He
ended up by taking me to lunch; and before we parted, he gave me
a check and another commission"
There is a certain degree of satisfaction in having the courage to
admit one's errors. It not only clears the air of guilt and
defensiveness, but often helps solve the problem created by the
error.
Bruce Harvey of Albuquerque, New Mexico, had incorrectly
authorized payment of full wages to an employee on sick leave.
When he discovered his error, he brought it to the attention of the
employee and explained that to correct the mistake he would have to
reduce his next paycheck by the entire amount of the overpayment.
The employee pleaded that as that would cause him a serious
financial problem, could the money be repaid over a period of time?
In order to do this, Harvey explained, he would have to obtain his
supervisor's approval. "And this I knew," reported Harvey, "would
result in a boss-type explosion, While trying to decide how to handle
this situation better, I realized that the whole mess was my fault and
I would have to admit I it to my boss.
"I walked into his office, told him that I had made a mistake and
then informed him of the complete facts. He replied in an explosive
manner that it was the fault of the personnel department. I repeated
that it was my fault. He exploded again about carelessness in the
accounting department. Again I explained it was my fault. He blamed
two other people in the office. But each time I reiterated it was my
fault. Finally, he looked at me and said, 'Okay, it was your fault. Now
straighten it out.' The error was corrected and nobody got into
trouble. I felt great because I was able to handle a tense situation
and had the courage not to seek alibis. My boss has had more
respect for me ever since."
Any fool can try to defend his or her mistakes - and most fools do -
but it raises one above the herd and gives one a feeling of nobility
and exultation to admit one's mistakes. For example, one of the most
beautiful things that history records about Robert E. Lee is the way
he blamed himself and only himself for the failure of Pickett's charge
at Gettysburg.
Pickett's charge was undoubtedly the most brilliant and picturesque
attack that ever occurred in the Western world. General George E.
Pickett himself was picturesque. He wore his hair so long that his
auburn locks almost touched his shoulders; and, like Napoleon in his
Italian campaigns, he wrote ardent love-letters almost daily while on
the battlefield. His devoted troops cheered him that tragic July
afternoon as he rode off jauntily toward the Union lines, his cap set
at a rakish angle over his right ear. They cheered and they followed
him, man touching man, rank pressing rank, with banners flying and
bayonets gleaming in the sun. It was a gallant sight. Daring.
Magnificent. A murmur of admiration ran through the Union lines as
they beheld it.
Pickett's troops swept forward at any easy trot, through orchard and
cornfield, across a meadow and over a ravine. All the time, the
enemy's cannon was tearing ghastly holes in their ranks, But on they
pressed, grim, irresistible.
