In the Dark 
By David Gerrold 
“Goldilocks!” 
Jake grinned as he studied the displays in front of him. His ship was still too far away for a detailed visual of the planet, but the specs were optimal—even better than optimal. 
A warm yellow sun, not too far off the main cycle. Three small moons, just large enough to generate tidal forces and keep the planet steady on its axis. 90.09% standard gravity. 73% water covered. 31% oxygen in the atmosphere. Mean temperature of 24 degrees Celsius. Seasonal super-storms, but that was true on almost every planet with an atmosphere. One long irregular continent stretching all the way from the arctic regions in the north to just beyond the temperate regions in the far south, plus a scattering of large islands, most of them close to the coasts of the single continent, but a few farther out. Vegetation shading from amber to indigo, but tending slightly toward orange and pink. Enough CO2 and methane in the atmosphere to indicate significant herbivore biomass, and probably dependent carnivorous forms as well. Some volcanic action, but nothing cataclysmic. 
Not too hot, not too cold. 
Not too big, not too little. 
Life supporting. 
Just right. 
Goldilocks. 
Even better, this star was in such an unlikely place, so far off the main routes, it was unlikely anyone would ever come looking for him. Hell, he realized, he might even be the first human to set foot on this improbable world. “Ha! Goldilocks, it is! I hereby dub thee the planet of golden tresses.” And possibly golden stresses. But he didn’t say that last part aloud. Why jinx it? 
He told the adjutant to put his ship into a polar orbit and set the scanners to map the entire surface of the world. He intended to be here for a long while. Maybe a lifetime. He wanted something tropical, with afternoon showers to cool off the heat of the day, and a broad western view so he could sit on his porch and enjoy the sunset. 
In fact, he had a whole list of desires. “Adjutant, look for fertile ground so I can plant some fruits and vegetables. Access to clean, running water so I can bathe regularly and set 
up a water wheel to generate power for lights. Close enough to the beach that I can go sailing, but high enough up the slopes to avoid any possibility of a tsunami. No active volcanoes in the neighborhood, no restless geological faults, and not in any tornado belt.” 
“Working,” replied the AI. 
Jake mused aloud, “Probably an island just off the equatorial belt. That would be nice.” 
“A continental location would give you more access to resources.” 
“Yes, but it would also put me in the path of various migratory species.” Scanners had revealed gigantic herds of astonishingly oversized things plodding steadily along, always in search of fresh grazing... and followed by almost as large predators, whole packs of them. “Living in the middle of an evolutionary super-highway is not a good option. I’m not stupid.” 
“No, you are not,” agreed the adjutant. “Your psychometric scores are quite high, considering your tendencies toward impulsiveness.” 
“Shut up,” Jake said. He hadn’t arrived here by accident. He’d been thinking about this for a long time. 
The decision to desert had been growling in his brain since twenty minutes after the first time he’d run the mortality statistics. He’d been muttering to himself, “There are old soldiers and there are bold soldiers, but there are no old bold soldiers.” Then he’d discovered there were no old soldiers either. That wasn’t just disheartening: it was terrifying. As he stared at the data displays, his tour of duty looked like forever, and the only retirement was a six-foot homestead on some empty wasteland that would never grow anything more than a field of regularly placed stone markers. 
Jake wanted to remain above the grass as long as possible. 
First, he’d checked to see which career paths had the best mortality statistics. Supply pilot wasn’t the best, but it wasn’t the worst either. And there was one overwhelming advantage. Colony ships usually carried all the gear for setting up a completely self-sufficient settlement. That was when the idea was born. That was when Jake chose his career path. It had taken seven years—seven scary years—and more than a few times he had reason to believe he had made a very bad choice. 
But seven years—that was supposed to be the duration of his contract. Seven years and he could opt out. Few had ever lived long enough to opt out, and those who had made it to the seven-year mark almost always found their enlistments extended by a stop-loss order. On the day his extension orders came in, that was when Jake decided enough was enough. 
He’d paid his dues, he was exhausted, and he had no energy for battle anymore. He had no family to return to; they’d been killed in a zerg attack. He’d enlisted in the military while still in his teens. You could dream for more—soldiers always did—but there was no more. There was only this. 
Jake had worked his way up from navigator to copilot to pilot. He was even an officer in training, with all the responsibilities and perks that came with. It gave him access to information—enough to know that there was a lot more to the universe than most people realized. He’d seen many different worlds, seen the barren and the rich, the beautiful and the ugly. He knew there were possibilities—more possibilities than the military ever acknowledged. 
So he studied star charts, studied astrophysics and solar dynamics. His superiors noticed his extracurricular interests. He told them he was aiming for a career in strategic planning and countermeasures, so they gave him access to the exploration and mapping databases, everything the deep-space surveillance probes had discovered for hundreds of thousands of light-years in every direction, a growing sphere of knowledge. 
Jake quietly sorted the data for the conditions necessary for a life-supporting planet. Some stars were too big or the wrong color. Some gave off too much radiation. But the right size star, the right color star, was the right place to look for a Goldilocks world. His superiors thought he was charting the probabilities of zerg infestation. The Swarm had been mostly quiet since the Brood War; even so, his superiors approved. Long-range planning was a good thing. They just didn’t know that Jake was planning for his own long range. 
The opportunity came unexpectedly. Jake hadn’t settled on a star system, hadn’t narrowed down his options. He was still considering a variety of possible candidates, both 
near and far, and he still needed to determine how far he would have to go before a pursuit would no longer be cost effective. 
But then the convoy was attacked. The battle erupted around them. Alone on the bridge, already dreaming of possibilities... before he had time to think, he acted. 
He didn’t have time to wake the captain; he popped off the plastic cover and slammed his hand down hard on the red button. The alarms went off all over the ship; crewmembers dived for escape pods; and within three minutes, the evacuation was complete, and Jake was the last man on board. 
It took him less than thirty seconds to bring the ship to a new heading, and then he jumped out and away from the combat zone. In the fury of fighting, barely anyone noticed. Only later, when they checked the various logs in all the surviving vessels, would they realize that one of their colony ships had disappeared—not destroyed, just gone. But that would only happen if there were any survivors. Based on what Jake had seen of the attack, there probably wouldn’t be. 
He was alone. He was free. He was here. 
And this was Goldilocks. 
Perfect. 
He let the adjutant crunch numbers and chew data for a few days longer while he prepared a puddle-jumper. He didn’t know what he might need, so he packed for all the different eventualities projected in the standard landing scenarios, plus all the local possibilities projected by the adjutant, especially any situation that would prevent him from returning to the colony ship. 
He also considered sending the big ship into the heart of the sun to destroy the evidence of his arrival. But that decision didn’t need to be made today. Besides, there might be some undiscovered reason Goldilocks was the wrong planet. The technical term was surprise. 
He’d already ruled out the main continent. Too many big hungry things. But... there was a chain of islands off to the west, close enough to the main continent to be accessible, yet far enough to provide isolation. The biggest of the islands, at the southeast end of the chain, looked like the perfect spot. The island was triangular in shape, formed by the steep cones of three volcanoes, two of them dormant. The last one—the largest, still smoldering—reached high enough into the sky to have permanent snowcaps, even glaciers. The meltwater provided year-round irrigation, and probably a few hot springs as well. Tropical currents sweeping up from the south kept the seas warm, and the winds from the north pushed clouds up against the western slopes every day, where the cool air triggered almost daily afternoon drizzles. 
He studied the big island critically. Dramatic vistas sprawled across wall-size displays. If there was something wrong, he needed to find it now, but the more he viewed, the more the island attracted him. 
Exploratory probes revealed carpets of lush vegetation spread across the slopes of the islands, slender fruit-bearing trees and even taller ones with wide sheltering leaves, whole forests thick with ferns and grass and creeper vines. Sparkling waterfalls fed a network of streams and ponds. There were at least six different ecosystems on the islands, determined by altitude, prevailing wind patterns, and water flow. Where the different zones collided, there would be accelerated evolutionary action. That meant healthy hybrid forms. 
Additional scanning revealed birds and insects—larger than he was used to, but nothing that seemed as threatening as what prowled the main continent. There were also a variety of amphibians, small animals, and even something that resembled a small wild pig. The seas were teeming with fish of all sizes, including several enormous species. But that was okay; Jake wasn’t planning to go swimming in that surf anyway. On the north shore, some of those waves were breaking nearly sixty meters high. That was intimidating; Jake had never been in anything deeper than a bathtub. 
He couldn’t decide what to name the island. Pax? Aloha? Shalom? Haven? The Big Island? None of those felt right. But he could wait. Maybe the island would reveal its own name to him in time. 
But there were other possibilities too, and he wasn’t about to make a hasty decision. He’d planned too long and come too far. So he gave the mainland one more careful review. He studied a small lagoon on the western coast of the long continent, sheltered by jagged cliffs that kept it isolated. And a comma-shaped lake in the highlands to the north, well above the migratory patterns. And even a storm-swept stony cliff in the southern hemisphere that was so inhospitable no rational person would ever think of exploring there. In the end, Jake always came back to the beckoning islands. Maybe someday, he’d explore the mainland, but right now the islands seemed both safe and attractive. 
But even after the puddle-jumper was fully loaded and programmed with the coordinates of the western slope of the island, Jake still hesitated. He went back to the bridge for one more look-around, one more scan, one more survey, one more run at the data—one more opportunity to find a reason to hesitate. 
He sat in the command chair for more than a week, arguing with himself, arguing with the adjutant, eating karak sandwiches and drinking cup after cup of coffee, pursing his lips, furrowing his brow, frowning, thinking, studying, debating with himself, arguing the pros and cons, the merits and demerits, until finally he realized that the situation wasn’t going to change, no matter how much he considered it. Maybe the island was idyllic; maybe it wasn’t. He’d never know for sure sitting here and worrying. 
For a moment, he even considered turning the ship around. He could still head back. He could say he’d taken the ship away from the convoy to save it from being destroyed. But that wouldn’t explain why he’d ordered the evacuation or why the unwipable logs would show his long, detailed surveillance of this planet. Well, he could argue that once he’d arrived here, he thought he should scan the planet for possible colonization. Would they believe that? Probably not. 
No, he was committed to this path—had been committed since the moment he’d slammed his hand down on the large red alarm button. There was no way he could avoid a court-martial, probably a firing squad. If he went back, he’d never have a chance like this again. He’d never know. 
Finally, frustrated with himself, realizing that inaction was producing no useful result, he spoke aloud. “Sitting doesn’t work, Jake. Get off your big fat ass and go.” 
It wasn’t exactly now or never. This launch window was closing; two hours from now, there would be another, and every two hours after. But there was nothing more to do, nothing else for Jake aboard this ship. You could only study a situation for so long. Then you had to act. He’d planned this escape for over seven years. This was what he’d been aiming for. This was the realization of the promise he’d made to himself. 
Even before he realized it consciously, he was standing up. He was moving. He disposed of the last of his meal, and ordered the ship into standby mode, then made his way down to the launch bay. One last look back—if everything went according to plan, he would be the last living being this ship would ever know. 
“Goodbye, Jake,” said the adjutant. “I shall maintain the ship for your return.” 
“You do that.” 
He boarded the puddle-jumper and carefully departed the starship. Pulling up a display on one of the monitors, Jake watched the giant vessel recede until it was nothing more than a gleaming pinpoint. A thought gnawed at the base of his brain that there was more he could have done, maybe should have done, but he couldn’t think of anything specific. And if it turned out he needed anything else, he could signal the colony ship to drop a few of the many cargo pods still on board. 
There was still time to return the smaller craft to the colony ship. He didn’t have to land here. There were plenty of far-distant frontier worlds that would appreciate the unexpected arrival of a fully loaded ship like this. He would be a hero. For a time, anyway. Only until the next military vessel came by and some opportunistic settler turned him in for the inevitable reward. No, he was safer simply disappearing. 
He let the moment pass and steered the puddle-jumper into a landing course. After a bit, the first wisps of upper atmosphere began to stream past the hull, and shortly after that, the buffeting began. Holding the ship steady, he used the thickening atmosphere for braking, only occasionally firing thrusters to correct the craft's course. 
He brought the craft down swiftly, approaching the island from the west and then leveling off just above the sparkling green surface of the ocean, close enough for Jake to see great dark shapes moving through the water. He slowed the puddle-jumper just before reaching the shore. 
The sand on the beaches glittered a startling shade of gold with pink pearlescent flecks. And then it gave way to broad slopes of grass, rising toward the distant cone of the volcano. This whole island was volcanic rock, and in some places the topsoil was so thin, trees couldn’t root. Only tall grass, shrubs, and ferns. 
At last, Jake landed the craft on a high plateau overlooking the western reach of the island. He watched his displays carefully while the craft sampled the air, filtered it, examined it for toxic elements and malicious bacteria, fungi, viruses, or prions. It could be several days before the system would admit that he could leave the puddle-jumper without a hazmat suit. The suit was guaranteed against infectious organisms up to Class Six, but that guarantee was useless out here where customer service was unavailable. No. He’d wait until the shipboard lab finished preparing appropriate vaccinations. 
He activated ground and air probes and released them to explore the island. He wasn’t going anywhere without detailed maps of the terrain. That could take another week or two. 
There had been other planets on his list of candidates. Some were barren: places with barely breathable atmosphere, places where the terraforming had not yet been completed and the only life-forms were algae, fungi, and lichens. Others had been charted and were known to be habitable, but Jake worried about who or what might eventually settle on those worlds. No, this one afforded him some promise of solitude. He wouldn’t be bored. He had his music; he had his digi-tomes; he had his holovids. 
But he didn’t feel like waiting: he climbed into an SCV and began plodding around the landing zone, getting a feel for the area. He only had a couple of hours of daylight left, but he could start laying out markers for a base camp. Driving an SCV, he could clear the ground, install cameras and lights, a variety of sensors, a security perimeter, and even a couple of auto-turrets. The latter were probably unnecessary, but standard procedure nonetheless. He doubted that the guns would ever be required to take out anything larger than a scorpion or a mosquito. Nevertheless... he’d make careful preparations. He’d been too deeply immersed in the paranoia of the military mind to let go easily. 
On the third day, he built a hangar for the puddle-jumper: climb into an SCV, unload the materials, weld the prefab walls into place, add a roof on top. Roll the ship inside, close 
the door. Then sleep for eight hours while the cameras and auto-turrets watched the perimeter. 
He awoke in the middle of the night. 
Almost naked, wearing only shorts and carrying a Torrent SR-8 shotgun with an infrared scope, he strode outside and peered into the darkness. The soft blue glow of the overhead lights revealed only the surrounding jungle in shades of deep indigo and black. Above, the stars twinkled brightly, and the largest of the planet’s three moons tumbled slowly. Raising the weapon, he looked through its scope and turned carefully, scanning for heat signatures. Nothing. 
Whatever he’d heard, it was silent now. 
Some kind of shriek... made by some kind of thing. Maybe a bird? Maybe even one of those things in the ocean, surfacing for a moment? Maybe just one of those pig-like animals? Maybe there were predators that fed on those animals? Logic suggested there should be. But logic was limited to the available facts, and the available facts were limited by the available technology for studying them, of which Jack had more limited than available. There was an old saying about strange new worlds: they were strange. Not only stranger than you imagine. Stranger than you can imagine. 
He stood in the dark for a long time, listening. Then he went back inside, sat down in front of his security displays, and played back the sounds of the night. Mostly the audio tracks revealed harmless background noises—the susurrus of the waves, the wind, and the rustling leaves of the surrounding foliage. But the scream? Nothing at all. 
He’d heard it only in his head. 
But he’d heard it. He knew he’d heard it. He was sure he’d heard it. 
He sat in front of the displays for a long time, studying the terrain of the island. He launched three probes to circle the area. 
And he trembled. 
The scream he’d heard tonight—it had been a raw, guttural roar of sudden awareness abruptly being cut off. He didn’t recognize it, didn’t understand it, didn’t know what could have caused it... but he recognized the screeching feeling in his head. He’d felt it before. Not this scream, but another one like it. 
There were stories of things on the other side of the sector with strange psionic powers. And there were other stories, even more disturbing, of humans who were conscripted and trained as psionic warriors. Ghosts. Jake had never met a ghost, never seen one in person. Officially, they didn’t even exist, but he knew they did. He’d experienced an inadvertent psi blast. It had happened on a transport mission, a top-secret operation. 
It had been early in his career, and he’d been only a petty officer third class at the time. But a large black ship, a nameless ship, had needed a crew in a hurry, and he’d had a security clearance. Nobody talked about the mission, but it was understood anyway that they were heading out to the Ghost Academy on the Korhal moon of Ursa. Even though nobody said there was a teep in a shielded cabin, everybody knew there was a teep aboard in the shielded cabin. 
Whoever she was, she stayed in her own quarters, far away from everyone for the entire trip. But one night she had a nightmare, and without any foreshock or warning, her sudden telepathic scream had blazed through the entire ship, knocking crewmembers to their knees. Men and women fell where they stood, passed out, vomited, collapsed into seizures, involuntarily emptied their bladders and bowels. Her escort, a single wrangler who hadn’t seemed like anything special, didn’t even hesitate: without a word, he abandoned his poker game and sprinted out of the mess hall. Turned out later he’d been wearing a fancy device called a psi-screen, and it had protected him from that terrible scream. The starship’s crew had no such protection. Slowly and painfully they gasped their way back to consciousness. The experience of the psionic blast left them dazed and confused, weak and trembling. 
For the rest of the journey, the wrangler kept the ghost candidate sedated. There was no official acknowledgment of the incident, but the captain quietly let it be known that the teep was barely a teenager, untrained and possessing little control over her powers. 
But the impact of that scream—it had scraped the souls of every crewmember aboard. The raw, brutal impact of the blast left them imprinted and wounded and sensitized to the slightest ripple of psionic force. 
Jake didn’t know what the teep’s original trauma had been, what dreads infected her memories, what terrors had resurfaced to trigger her nightmare, but even though he had 
never seen any himself, Jake felt sure it must have involved zerglings. In the aftermath of that horrific psionic moment, his mind resonated with a disjointed turmoil of strange and terrible feelings, as if he had been assaulted, invaded. He felt as if new memories had been burned into his skull, false memories, not his, but memories nonetheless of what it felt like to be thrown into a pit of snarling, chittering, mindless insect-things. 
The ship’s doctor, himself a trembling shell now, had cautioned everyone on the crew that the resonance of the moment might leave some of them with some increased sensitivity to telepathic noise, but that was an understatement. Before the ship reached its final destination, three crewmembers had committed suicide. 
Jake was one of the unlucky ones. He survived. Ripped open, unhealed, he was one of the walking wounded. Emotionally disrupted, now he could feel the mind-noise of the people around him. Not clearly, just a continual rattling of stray impulses from people around him, half-formed, incomplete—fear, sorrow, anger, sadness, resentment, and much too often, thoughts of lust and desire and strange dark emotions. The noise came in slow waves, sometimes rising, sometimes fading, sometimes the most terrible when people were asleep and dreaming, but never fading enough to be tolerable. 
That was when Jake had committed himself to escape. He had to find a place where he could experience quiet again, a place with no other humans around. 
But this scream...? Here and now. It hadn’t been human. Of that Jake was sure. It was something else. Something that might have been animal, might have been insect, might have been mindless, might have been god-like. But whatever it was, it was compelling. 
In the morning, before the orange sun had cleared the horizon, Jake was awake and ready. He wore light combat armor, he carried a customized AGR-14, and he’d jury-rigged his helmet to project heads-up datalinks onto his visor. He’d spent the long hours of transit to this world rebuilding and modifying every piece of equipment that frustrated him. And that was almost everything. He strapped himself onto a vulture, took a deep breath, and muttered, “All right. Let’s roll.” 
The vulture was perfect for scouting and patrol—a lightly armored one-man hoverbike, designed for speed and reliability. The colonial models could be flown up to a 
kilometer above sea level and could reach speeds of 370 klicks per hour. Jake had loaded three of them on the puddle-jumper, plus spare parts. 
Six days he searched the islands, listening inside his head for the chattering noises of... whatever might have screamed in the night. Six nights he patrolled the skies, probing the dark foliage with fingers of blue light. Nothing. 
On the seventh day he rested. He landed the vulture beside the hangar, noticing that the first creeper vines were already exploring the surface of the thatch. Within months, they would overgrow it, covering it with thick black strands and an even thicker blue-black carpet of leaves. It would be good camouflage from prying eyes. 
On Monday, Jake double-checked the fuel cells of his vulture and took to the air again. He was going back to the northern sweep of the island to search the slopes of the tallest volcano. It rose like a giant cooling tower on the horizon. This world’s 90% gravity encouraged everything to grow bigger, taller, larger. Sand dunes and waves were steeper because the angle of repose was greater. Mountains were more upright and jagged. The cones of the volcanoes rose like towers toward the sky; their sides were almost vertical. Insects and animals were larger too. The intense heat of the day made it possible for animals without homeostasis to warm faster and maintain internal body heat. That and an oxygen-rich atmosphere also favored animals of greater size—optimal was as big as a football; it was the outliers that were worrisome. Those could be as big as a football field. Fortunately, the islands in this chain weren’t large enough to provide sufficient vegetation to support even a small herd of the giant grass eaters that roamed the mainland. 
Additionally, the volcanically formed terrain was rugged and uneven. It didn’t favor migration or even casual exploration. Without the vulture, much of the landscape would have remained inaccessible to Jake. There were places he could not have seen, features he would not have discovered. 
In particular... 
Both of the dormant craters were riddled with lava tubes, natural tunnels formed by streams of molten lava. As the torrents had rushed downward, the edges had hardened up and around, leaving long tunnels of dark volcanic rock. Later eruptions had built up thick roofs over many of the lava tubes. Most of the tubes were wide enough to hold a puddle-
jumper. If Jake had known to look for lava tubes, he could have saved himself the effort of building a hangar at the landing site. A lava tube would provide better air cover. If it was deep enough, it would even serve as an attack-proof bunker. He would have to explore these tunnels more thoroughly, but not until he found the source of the psionic scream. 
First things first. 
From time to time, Jake parked the small craft to release another probe. The probes would quietly and patiently explore their surroundings, looking, listening, and relaying their data back to camp. Some would actively explore; others would go semi-dormant, awakening only if disturbed. If there were things on this island that defied easy detection, Jake would find them. If not now, then eventually. 
In the afternoon, looking northward, Jake saw the horizon darkening rapidly. Occasional flickers of lightning flashed between the sea and the sky. 
“Crap,” Jake said aloud. He’d forgotten one of the first rules of anything: don’t get so involved in what you’re doing that you forget what you’re doing. He’d forgotten to pay attention to his weather displays. 
The danger was immediately apparent. The wide line of the squall was rushing toward him at incredible speed. Understandable. Everything on this world was larger than he’d imagined. This wasn’t just a squall; it was a super-storm. There was no way he could make it back to camp before it hit. He’d have to find a closer shelter and wait it out. 
His first impulse was to head for the lee side of the volcano, but he realized almost immediately that he would be just as defenseless to the elements as the storm swept over. 
No, there was only one possibility. He headed his vulture for the nearest lava tube. He’d been planning to explore some of the larger tunnels someday. He just hadn’t realized that someday would be so immediate. 
The storm wasn’t entirely unexpected. His data crunches had shown the planet was capable of extreme weather, but without any long-term studies of wind and weather patterns, he’d had no way of knowing how often the super-storms would occur. This planet needed an ice age to cool it down. All that heat—the same heat that favored an oxygen-rich atmosphere and encouraged giant plants and animals—it also favored massive evaporation of water vapor from the surface of the ocean and horrific winds to hurl the resultant 
massive super-saturated clouds into any obstructing mountain. This wasn’t just a super-storm; it was a perfect storm, a scouring hurricane of colossal proportions. 
