number-crunching exercises. It should have a creative component
instead of being strictly analysis-driven, and it should be more motivational,
invoking willing commitment, than bargaining-driven,
producing negotiated commitment. Despite this appetite for change,
however, scant work exists on building a viable alternative to existing
strategic planning, which is the most essential management
task in the sense that almost every company in the world not only
does it but often takes several grueling months each year to complete
the exercise.
Building the process around a picture addresses many of managers’
discontents with existing strategic planning and yields much
better results. As Aristotle pointed out, “The soul never thinks without
an image.”
Drawing a strategy canvas and a PMS map is not, of course, the
only part of the strategic planning process. At some stage, numbers
and documents must be compiled and discussed. But we believe
that the details will fall into place more easily if managers start
with the big picture of how to break away from the competition.
The methods of visualizing strategy proposed here will put strategy
back into strategic planning, and they will greatly improve
you maximize the size of the blue ocean you are creating? This
brings us to the third principle of blue ocean strategy: Reach beyond
existing demand. This is a key component of achieving value
innovation. By aggregating the greatest demand for a new offering,
this approach attenuates the scale risk associated with creating a
new market.
To achieve this, companies should challenge two conventional
strategy practices. One is the focus on existing customers. The
other is the drive for finer segmentation to accommodate buyer differences.
Typically, to grow their share of a market, companies
strive to retain and expand existing customers. This often leads to
finer segmentation and greater tailoring of offerings to better meet
customer preferences. The more intense the competition is, the
greater, on average, is the resulting customization of offerings. As
companies compete to embrace customer preferences through finer
segmentation, they often risk creating too-small target markets.
To maximize the size of their blue oceans, companies need to
take a reverse course. Instead of concentrating on customers, they
need to look to noncustomers. And instead of focusing on customer
differences, they need to build on powerful commonalities in what
buyers value. That allows companies to reach beyond existing demand
to unlock a new mass of customers that did not exist before.
Think of Callaway Golf. It aggregated new demand for its offering
by looking to noncustomers. While the U.S. golf industry
fought to win a greater share of existing customers, Callaway created
a blue ocean of new demand by asking why sports enthusiasts
and people in the country club set had not taken up golf as a sport.
By looking to why people shied away from golf, it found one key
commonality uniting the mass of noncustomers: Hitting the golf
ball was perceived as too difficult. The small size of the golf club
head demanded enormous hand-eye coordination, took time to
master, and required concentration. As a result, fun was sapped for
novices, and it took too long to get good at the sport.
This understanding gave Callaway insight into how to aggregate
new demand for its offering. The answer was Big Bertha, a golf club
with a large head that made it far easier to hit the golf ball. Big
Bertha not only converted noncustomers of the industry into customers,
but it also pleased existing golf customers, making it a runaway
bestseller across the board. With the exception of pros, it
turned out that the mass of existing customers also had been frustrated
with the difficulty of advancing their game by mastering the
skills needed to hit the ball consistently. The club’s large head also
lessened this difficulty.
Interestingly, however, existing customers, unlike noncustomers,
had implicitly accepted the difficulty of the game. Although the
mass of existing customers didn’t like it, they had taken for granted
that that was the way the game was played. Instead of registering
their dissatisfaction with golf club makers, they themselves accepted
the responsibility to improve. By looking to noncustomers
and focusing on their key commonalities—not differences—Call-
102 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
away saw how to aggregate new demand and offer the mass of customers
and noncustomers a leap in value.
Where is your locus of attention—on capturing a greater share
of existing customers, or on converting noncustomers of the industry
into new demand? Do you seek out key commonalities in what
buyers value, or do you strive to embrace customer differences
through finer customization and segmentation? To reach beyond
existing demand, think noncustomers before customers; commonalities
before differences; and desegmentation before pursuing
finer segmentation.
The Three Tiers of Noncustomers
Although the universe of noncustomers typically offers big blue
ocean opportunities, few companies have keen insight into who
noncustomers are and how to unlock them. To convert this huge
latent demand into real demand in the form of thriving new customers,
companies need to deepen their understanding of the universe
of noncustomers.
There are three tiers of noncustomers that can be transformed
into customers. They differ in their relative distance from your market.
As depicted in figure 5-1, the first tier of noncustomers is closest
to your market. They sit on the edge of the market. They are
buyers who minimally purchase an industry’s offering out of necessity
but are mentally noncustomers of the industry. They are waiting
to jump ship and leave the industry as soon as the opportunity
presents itself. However, if offered a leap in value, not only would
they stay, but also their frequency of purchases would multiply, unlocking
enormous latent demand.
The second tier of noncustomers is people who refuse to use
your industry’s offerings. These are buyers who have seen your industry’s
offerings as an option to fulfill their needs but have voted
against them. In the Callaway case, for example, these were sports
Reach Beyond Existing Demand 103
enthusiasts, especially the country club tennis set, who could have
chosen golf but had consciously chosen against it.
The third tier of noncustomers is farthest from your market.
They are noncustomers who have never thought of your market’s
offerings as an option. By focusing on key commonalities across
these noncustomers and existing customers, companies can understand
how to pull them into their new market.
Let’s look at each of the three tiers of noncustomers to understand
in 1988, has expanded its blue ocean by tapping into the huge latent
demand of first-tier noncustomers. Before Pret, professionals in
European city centers principally frequented restaurants for
lunch. Sit-down restaurants offered a nice meal and setting. However,
the number of first-tier noncustomers was high and rising.
Growing concerns over the need for healthy eating gave people second
thoughts about eating out in restaurants. And professionals
did not always have time for a sit-down meal. Some restaurants were
also too expensive for lunch on a daily basis. So professionals were
increasingly grabbing something on the run, bringing a brown bag
from home, or even skipping lunch.
These first-tier noncustomers were in search of better solutions.
Although there were numerous differences across them, they shared
three key commonalities: They wanted lunch fast, they wanted it
fresh and healthy, and they wanted it at a reasonable price.
The insight gained from the commonalities across these first-tier
noncustomers shed light on how Pret could unlock and aggregate
untapped demand. The Pret formula is simple. It offers restaurantquality
sandwiches made fresh every day from only the finest ingredients,
and it makes the food available at a speed that is faster than
that of restaurants and even fast food. It also delivers this in a sleek
setting at reasonable prices.
Consider what Pret is like. Walking into a Pret A Manger is like
walking into a bright Art Deco studio. Along the walls are clean refrigerated
shelves stocked with more than thirty types of sandwiches
(average price $4–$6) made fresh that day, in that shop, from
fresh ingredients delivered earlier that morning. People can also
choose from other freshly made items, such as salads, yogurt, parfaits,
blended juices, and sushi. Each store has its own kitchen, and
nonfresh items are made by high-quality producers. Even in its
Reach Beyond Existing Demand 105
New York stores, Pret’s baguettes are from Paris, its croissants are
from Belgium, and its Danish pastries are from Denmark. And
nothing is kept over to the next day. Leftover food is given to homeless
shelters.
In addition to offering fresh healthy sandwiches and other fresh
food items, Pret speeds up the customer ordering experience from
fast food’s queue-order-pay-wait-receive-sit down purchasing cycle to
a much faster browse-pick up-pay-leave cycle. On average, customers
spend just ninety seconds from the time they get in line to the time
they leave the shop. This is made possible because Pret produces
ready-made sandwiches and other things at high volume with a
high standardization of assembly, does not make to order, and does
not serve its customers. They serve themselves as in a supermarket.
Whereas sit-down restaurants have seen stagnant demand, Pret
has been converting the mass of soon-to-be noncustomers into core
thriving customers who eat at Pret more often than they used to eat
at restaurants. Beyond this, as with Callaway, restaurant-goers who
were content to eat lunch at restaurants also have been flocking to
Pret. Although restaurant lunches had been acceptable, the three
key commonalities of first-tier noncustomers struck a chord with
these people; but unlike soon-to-be noncustomers, they had not
thought to question their lunch habits. The lesson: Noncustomers
tend to offer far more insight into how to unlock and grow a blue
ocean than do relatively content existing customers.
Today Pret A Manger sells more than twenty-five million sandwiches
a year from its one hundred thirty stores in the U.K., and it
recently opened stores in New York and Hong Kong. In 2002 it had
sales of more than £100m ($160 million). Its growth potential triggered
McDonald’s to buy a 33 percent share of the company.
What are the key reasons first-tier noncustomers want to jump
ship and leave your industry? Look for the commonalities across
their responses. Focus on these, and not on the differences between
them. You will glean insight into how to desegment buyers and unleash
an ocean of latent untapped demand.
106 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
Second-Tier Noncustomers
These are refusing noncustomers, people who either do not use or
cannot afford to use the current market offerings because they find
the offerings unacceptable or beyond their means. Their needs are
either dealt with by other means or ignored. Harboring within refusing
noncustomers, however, is an ocean of untapped demand
waiting to be released.
Consider how JCDecaux, a vendor of French outdoor advertising
space, pulled the mass of refusing noncustomers into its market.
Before JCDecaux created a new concept in outdoor advertising
called “street furniture” in 1964, the outdoor advertising industry
included billboards and transport advertisement. Billboards typically
were located on city outskirts and along roads where traffic
quickly passed by; transport advertisement comprised panels on
buses and taxies, which again people caught sight of only as they
whizzed by.
Outdoor advertising was not a popular campaign medium for
many companies because it was viewed only in a transitory way.
Outdoor ads were exposed to people for a very short time while they
were in transit, and the rate of repeat visits was low. Especially for
lesser-known companies, such advertising media were ineffective
because they could not carry the comprehensive messages needed
to introduce new names and products. Hence, many such companies
refused to use such low-value-added outdoor advertising because
it was either unacceptable or a luxury they could not afford.
Having thought through the key commonalities that cut across
refusing noncustomers of the industry, JCDecaux realized that the
lack of stationary downtown locations was the key reason the industry
remained unpopular and small. In searching for a solution,
JCDecaux found that municipalities could offer stationary downtown
locations, such as bus stops, where people tended to wait a few
minutes and hence had time to read and be influenced by advertisements.
JCDecaux reasoned that if it could secure these locations to
Reach Beyond Existing Demand 107
use for outdoor advertising, it could convert second-tier noncustomers
into customers.
This gave it the idea to provide street furniture, including maintenance
and upkeep, free to municipalities. JCDecaux figured that
as long as the revenue generated from selling ad space exceeded the
costs of providing and maintaining the furniture at an attractive
profit margin, the company would be on a trajectory of strong, profitable
growth. Accordingly, street furniture was created that would
integrate advertising panels.
In this way, JCDecaux created a breakthrough in value for second-
tier noncustomers, the municipalities, and itself. The strategy
eliminated cities’ traditional costs associated with urban furniture.
In return for free products and services, JCDecaux gained the
exclusive right to display advertisements on the street furniture located
in downtown areas. By making ads available in city centers,
the company significantly increased the average exposure time, improving
the recall capabilities of this advertising medium. The increase
in exposure time also permitted richer contents and more
complex messages. Moreover, as the maintainer of the urban furniture,
JCDecaux could help advertisers roll out their campaigns in
two to three days, as opposed to fifteen days of rollout time for traditional
billboard campaigns.
In response to JCDecaux’s exceptional value offering, the mass
of refusing noncustomers flocked to the industry. As a medium of
advertisement, street furniture became the highest-growth market
in the overall display advertising industry. Global spending on
street furniture between 1995 and 2000, for example, grew by 60 percent
compared with a 20 percent total increase in overall display
advertising.
By signing contracts of eight to twenty-five years with municipalities,
JCDecaux gained long-term exclusive rights for displaying
ads with street furniture. After an initial capital investment, the
only expenditure for JCDecaux in the subsequent years was the
maintenance and renewal of the furniture. The operating margin
of street furniture was as high as 40 percent, compared with 14 per-
108 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
cent for billboards and 18 percent for transport advertisements.
The exclusive contracts and high operating margins created a
steady source of long-term revenue and profits. With this business
model, JCDecaux was able to capture a leap in value for itself in return
for a leap in value created for its buyers.
Today, JCDecaux is the number one street furniture-based ad
space provider worldwide, with 283,000 panels in thirty-three countries.
What’s more, by looking to second-tier noncustomers and focusing
on the key commonalities that turned them away from the
industry, JCDecaux also increased the demand for outdoor advertising
by existing customers of the industry. Until then, existing
customers had focused on what billboard locations or bus lines they
could secure, for what period, and for how much. They took for
granted that those were the only options available and worked
within them. Again, it took noncustomers to shed insight into the
implicit assumptions of the industry and its existing customers that
could be challenged and rewritten to create a leap in value for all.
What are the key reasons second-tier noncustomers refuse to use
the products or services of your industry? Look for the commonalities
across their responses. Focus on these, and not on their differences.
You will glean insight into how to unleash an ocean of latent
untapped demand.
Third-Tier Noncustomers
The third tier of noncustomers is the farthest away from an industry’s
existing customers. Typically, these unexplored noncustomers
have not been targeted or thought of as potential customers by any
player in the industry. That’s because their needs and the business
opportunities associated with them have somehow always been assumed
to belong to other markets.
It would drive many companies crazy to know how many thirdtier
noncustomers they are forfeiting. Just think of the long-held
assumption that tooth whitening was a service provided exclusively
by dentists and not by oral care consumer-product compa-
Reach Beyond Existing Demand 109
nies. Consequently, oral care companies, until recently, never looked
at the needs of these noncustomers. When they did, they found an
ocean of latent demand waiting to be tapped; they also found that
they had the capability to deliver safe, high-quality, low-cost tooth
whitening solutions, and the market exploded.
This potential applies to most industries. Consider the U.S. defense
aerospace industry. It has been argued that the inability to
control aircraft costs is a key vulnerability in the long-term military
strength of the United States.1 Soaring costs combined with shrinking
budgets, concluded a 1993 Pentagon report, left the military
without a viable plan to replace its aging fleet of fighter aircraft.2 If
the military couldn’t find a way to build aircraft differently, military
leaders worried, the United States would not have enough airplanes
to properly defend its interests.
Traditionally, the Navy, Marines, and Air Force differed in their
conceptions of the ideal fighter plane and hence each branch designed
and built its own aircraft independently. The Navy argued
for a durable aircraft that would survive the stress of landing on
carrier decks. The Marines wanted an expeditionary aircraft capable
of short takeoffs and landings. The Air Force wanted the fastest
and most sophisticated aircraft.
Historically, these differences among the independent branches
were taken for granted, and the defense aerospace industry was regarded
as having three distinct and separate segments. The Joint
Strike Fighter (JSF) program challenged this industry practice.3 It
looked to all three segments as potentially unexplored noncustomers
that could be aggregated into a new market of higher-performing,
lower-cost fighter planes. Rather than accept the existing
segmentation and develop products according to the differences in
specifications and features demanded by each branch of the military,
the JSF program questioned these differences. It searched for
the key commonalities across the three branches that had previously
disregarded one another.
This process revealed that the two highest-cost components of
the three branches’ aircraft were the same: avionics (software) and
110 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
engines. The shared use and production of these components held
the promise of enormous cost reductions. Moreover, even though
each branch had a long list of highly customized requirements,
most aircraft across branches performed the same missions.
The JSF team looked to understand how many of these highly
customized features decisively influenced the branches’ purchase
decision. Interestingly, the Navy’s answer did not hinge on a wide
range of factors. Instead, it boiled down to only two: durability and
maintainability. With aircraft stationed on aircraft carriers thousands
of miles away from the nearest maintenance hangar, the
Navy wants a fighter that is easy to maintain and yet durable as a
Mack truck so that it can absorb the shock of carrier landings and
constant exposure to salt air. Fearing that these two essential qualities
would be compromised with the requirements of the Marines
and the Air Force, the Navy bought its aircraft separately.
equipped with stealth technology: radar-absorbing materials and
structures to make it less visible to radar and therefore more likely to
evade enemy missiles and aircraft. The other two branches’ aircraft
lacked these factors, and hence the Air Force had not considered them.
These findings on unexplored noncustomers made the JSF a feasible
project. The aim was to build one aircraft for all three divisions
Reach Beyond Existing Demand 111
by combining those key factors while reducing or eliminating
everything else—that is, all the factors that had been taken for
granted by each branch but provided little value, or factors that
had been overdesigned in the race to beat the competition. As outlined
in figure 5-2, some twenty competing factors in the Marine,
Navy, and Air Force segments were eliminated or reduced.
By combining the factors in this way and reducing or eliminating
the rest, the JSF program is able to build one aircraft for all
three branches. The result is a dramatic drop in costs and hence the
price per aircraft, with a leap in value in performance for all three
all three tiers of noncustomers. In that way, you can expand the
scope of latent demand you can unleash. When that is the case, you
should not focus on a specific tier but instead should look across
tiers. The rule here is to go for the largest catchment.
The natural strategic orientation of many companies is toward
retaining existing customers and seeking further segmentation opportunities.
This is especially true in the face of competitive pressure.
Although this might be a good way to gain a focused
competitive advantage and increase share of the existing market
space, it is not likely to produce a blue ocean that expands the market
and creates new demand. The point here is not to argue that it’s
wrong to focus on existing customers or segmentation but rather to
challenge these existing, taken-for-granted strategic orientations.
What we suggest is that to maximize the scale of your blue ocean
you should first reach beyond existing demand to noncustomers and
desegmentation opportunities as you formulate future strategies.
114 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
If no such opportunities can be found, you can then move on to
further exploit differences among existing customers. But in making
such a strategic move, you should be aware that you might end
up landing in a smaller space. You should also be aware that when
your competitors succeed in attracting the mass of noncustomers
with a value innovation move, many of your existing customers
may be attracted away because they too may be willing to put their
differences aside to gain the offered leap in value.
It is not enough to maximize the size of the blue ocean you are
creating. You must profit from it to create a sustainable win-win
outcome. The next chapter shows how to build a viable business
model that produces and maintains profitable growth for your blue
ocean offering.
Reach Beyond Existing Demand 115

(
)
(
)
(
)
(
)
C H A P T E R 6
Get the Strategic
Sequence Right
YOU’VE LOOKED ACROSS PATHS to discover possible
blue oceans. You’ve constructed a strategy canvas that
clearly articulates your future blue ocean strategy. And you have
explored how to aggregate the largest possible mass of buyers for
your idea. The next challenge is to build a robust business model to
ensure that you make a healthy profit on your blue ocean idea. This
brings us to the fourth principle of blue ocean strategy: Get the
strategic sequence right.
This chapter discusses the strategic sequence of fleshing out and
validating blue ocean ideas to ensure their commercial viability.
With an understanding of the right strategic sequence and of how
to assess blue ocean ideas along the key criteria in that sequence,
you dramatically reduce business model risk.
The Right Strategic Sequence
As shown in figure 6-1, companies need to build their blue ocean
strategy in the sequence of buyer utility, price, cost, and adoption.
The starting point is buyer utility. Does your offering unlock exceptional
utility? Is there a compelling reason for the mass of people
to buy it? Absent this, there is no blue ocean potential to begin
with. Here there are only two options. Park the idea, or rethink it
until you reach an affirmative answer.
118 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
FIGURE 6-1
The Sequence of Blue Ocean Strategy
Buyer utility
Is there exceptional buyer utility
in your business idea?
Price
Is your price easily accessible
to the mass of buyers?
Cost
Can you attain your cost target
to profit at your strategic price?
Adoption
What are the adoption hurdles in
actualizing your business idea?
Are you addressing them up front?
A Commercially
Viable
Blue Ocean Idea
Yes
No—Rethink
Yes
Yes
Yes
No—Rethink
No—Rethink
No—Rethink
When you clear the exceptional utility bar, you advance to the
second step: setting the right strategic price. Remember, a company
does not want to rely solely on price to create demand. The key
question here is this: Is your offering priced to attract the mass of
target buyers so that they have a compelling ability to pay for your
offering? If it is not, they cannot buy it. Nor will the offering create
irresistible market buzz.
These first two steps address the revenue side of a company’s
business model. They ensure that you create a leap in net buyer
value, where net buyer value equals the utility buyers receive minus
the price they pay for it.
Securing the profit side brings us to the third element: cost. Can
you produce your offering at the target cost and still earn a healthy
profit margin? Can you profit at the strategic price—the price
easily accessible to the mass of target buyers? You should not let
costs drive prices. Nor should you scale down utility because high
costs block your ability to profit at the strategic price. When the
target cost cannot be met, you must either forgo the idea because
the blue ocean won’t be profitable, or you must innovate your
business model to hit the target cost. The cost side of a company’s
business model ensures that it creates a leap in value for itself in
the form of profit—that is, the price of the offering minus the cost
of production. It is the combination of exceptional utility, strategic
pricing, and target costing that allows companies to achieve value
innovation—a leap in value for both buyers and companies.
The last step is to address adoption hurdles. What are the adoption
hurdles in rolling out your idea? Have you addressed these up
front? The formulation of blue ocean strategy is complete only
when you can address adoption hurdles in the beginning to ensure
the successful actualization of your idea. Adoption hurdles include,
for example, potential resistance to the idea by retailers or partners.
Because blue ocean strategies represent a significant departure
from red oceans, it is key to address adoption hurdles up front.
How can you assess whether your blue ocean strategy is passing
through each of the four sequential steps? And how can you refine
Get the Strategic Sequence Right 119
your idea to pass each bar? Let’s address these questions, starting
with utility.
Testing for Exceptional Utility
The need to assess the buyer utility of your offering may seem selfevident.
Yet many companies fail to deliver exceptional value because
they are obsessed by the novelty of their product or service,
especially if new technology plays a part in it.
Consider Philips’ CD-i, an engineering marvel that failed to offer
people a compelling reason to buy it. The player was promoted as
the “Imagination Machine” because of its diverse functions. CD-i
was a video machine, music system, game player, and teaching tool
all wrapped into one. Yet it did so many different tasks that people
could not understand how to use it. In addition, it lacked attractive
software titles. So even though the CD-i theoretically could do almost
anything, in reality it could do very little. Customers lacked a
compelling reason to use it, and sales never took off.
Managers responsible for Philips’ CD-i (as well as Motorola’s
Iridium) fell into the same trap: They reveled in the bells and whistles
of their new technology. They acted on the assumption that
bleeding-edge technology is equivalent to bleeding-edge utility for
buyers—something that, our research found, is rarely the case.
The technology trap that snagged Philips and Motorola trips up
the best and brightest companies time and again. Unless the technology
makes buyers’ lives dramatically simpler, more convenient,
more productive, less risky, or more fun and fashionable, it will not
attract the masses no matter how many awards it wins. Think, for
example, of Starbucks, Cirque du Soleil, The Home Depot, Southwest
Airlines, [yellow tail], or Ralph Lauren: Value innovation is
not the same as technology innovation.
To get around this trap, the starting point, as articulated in
chapter 2, is to create a strategic profile that passes the initial lit-
120 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
mus test of being focused, being divergent, and having a compelling
tagline that speaks to buyers. Having done this, companies are
ready to expressly assess where and how the new product or service
will change the lives of its buyers. Such a difference in perspective
is important because it means that the way a product or service is
developed becomes less a function of its technical possibilities and
more a function of its utility to buyers.
The buyer utility map helps managers look at this issue from the
right perspective (see figure 6-2). It outlines all the levers companies
can pull to deliver exceptional utility to buyers as well as the
various experiences buyers can have with a product or service. This
map allows managers to identify the full range of utility spaces that
a product or service can potentially fill. Let’s look at the map’s dimensions
in detail.
Get the Strategic Sequence Right 121
FIGURE 6-2
The Buyer Utility Map
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
Purchase Delivery Use Supplements Maintenance Disposal
The Six Utility Levers
Customer
productivity
Simplicity
Convenience
Risk
Fun and
image
