Suzette wrestled her arm away from her grip, then flung the door open and ran down the
alley. Madame Laurent watched her hasty departure and smiled, calmly assured this would not
be the last of their discussions.
While making her way back to the washhouse, Suzette pondered Madame Laurent’s brazen
offer. Her confused mind screamed “no.” Her aching, exhausted, hungry body begged her to say
“yes.” The price was too great to pay, and she swore she would rather die in a back alley than
sell her body to live in luxury. Her father would never forgive her for stooping to such a
deplorable life, nor would she forgive herself.
Fearful that Brouchard would scold her for the time she missed, she successfully dodged
his keen eyes upon her return. Suzette reached her station, poured out her laundry basket from
the Chabanais, and began sorting. She wanted to forget what transpired between herself and
Madame Laurent, but touching the brothel linens made it impossible.
Angry and tired, she said nothing to Flora, who stood by curiously watching the strange
behavior of her coworker. Suzette flung the sheets from pile to pile. Each bend of her red and
cracked fingers caused pain.
As she struggled to work, visions of the opulent brothel teased her resolve. Madame
Laurent’s invitation to live like a queen replayed in her mind. It would be so nice to feel like a
queen, she thought, but the price was far too costly.
Chapter Seven
As the weeks passed, Suzette felt like a millstone hung around her neck, which she bore as
a necklace of shame. Eighteen hours of work, sorting linens, washing, folding, and walking
back and forth to the Chabanais became the entirety of her boring and meaningless existence.
Each night, she returned exhausted to her cot for five hours of sleep in a room filled with
drunken, snoring women who grated on her nerves.
In contrast, the opulence of the brothel would greet her with open arms. The scent of
perfume filled her nostrils, alluring her from the stench of the washhouse. Suzette arrived at the
shameful realization that she looked forward to her morning visits in a house of ill repute, if for
nothing more than to breathe fresh air and enjoy a luxurious atmosphere where everything
appeared soft and clean.
Her visits were often short and without conversation. As the weeks dragged on, she met
more of Madame Laurent’s employees. They rarely spoke to her. More often, they eyed her
arrival through the back door and commenced whispering amongst themselves. Nadine always
seemed to be the center of attention, giggling at her whenever she passed by.
At first, Madame Laurent stood silently observing Suzette as she carried out her duties.
Eventually, she would bring up the subject once again, asking Suzette to join the ranks of her
staff and become one of her girls.
“My offer is still open, Suzette, should you wish to take it. Leave the squalor and come live
like a queen.”
Madame Laurent entice Suzette’s weakening resolve with offers of a comfortable bed, a
belly full of food, new clothes, lavish creams, and perfumed hair. Suzette would shake her head
and give the same timid response.
“No thank you, Madame.”
After time, the cat-and-mouse game, as they often do, began to wear upon Madame
Laurent’s patience. Unable to convince an eighteen-year-old beauty to join her staff was merely
a minor setback, which she would soon remedy by other means. It would not be long, and
Suzette would be one of her new beauties of pleasure. When Madame Laurent wanted her way,
she was bound to get it.
* * *
Monsieur Brouchard counted the 50 francs at least a dozen times. The bills were crisp, and
he brought them to his nostrils and inhaled the alluring scent of money. The amount was more
than what he made in a month.
He folded the bills for the last time and stuffed them into his pants pocket, after standing up
from behind his desk. The clock on the wall indicated the end of the shift had arrived. He was
about to earn his pay by performing one small task he would thoroughly enjoy.
The door to his office opened, and he walked out onto the washroom floor and observed the
women finishing their work. Each night, he would bellow out at the top of his lungs, “End of
shift!” and then stand aside and watch the weary ladies go their separate ways.
He meandered over to Suzette stooping over a basin scrubbing sheets, which should have
been done hours ago. Both of his hands were shoved into the pockets of his trousers, and one
fingered the crisp francs with greed.
“I need a word with you,” he scowled. He purposely contorted his face into an angry scowl.
Suzette stood up straight and wiped her sweaty brow with the back of her hand. She
frowned at him in return. “Yes, Monsieur Brouchard?”
“You’re fired. Take what belongings you keep upstairs and leave. Your services here are no
longer required.”
Suzette dropped the sheet into the soapy water and wiped her hands on her apron.
Dumfounded, she froze. He spat the words in her direction with such force that she could not
deny he meant every syllable. His angry expression dared her to question him, but Suzette’s
shock would not let her remain silent.
“But why? What have I done?” she persisted.
“It doesn’t matter,” he hissed, as he took a step and shoved his face closer into hers. “It’s
my prerogative to fire anyone I choose, whenever I wish. I’m not satisfied with your work.
These sheets should have been hung to dry hours ago.” He shook his finger at her, inhaled a
deep breath, and yelled, “Gather your things and leave now!”
Suzette could not believe what she heard. “May I at least spend the night here, Monsieur?
Surely you don’t expect me to sleep on the streets.” Her voice shook from the fear. “I will leave
in the morning.” She wanted to kneel at his feet and beg for mercy, but before he would even
give her the chance to plead any longer, he finished the deed he was paid to do.
“There’ll be no sleeping under my roof once I fire an employee. Get your things and get
out.” He swung around and stomped off to his office slamming the door behind him.
Suzette turned to Flora, who was standing nearby. “Flora, he cannot throw me out on the
street like this, can he?”
“There’s nothing you can do. You best be going before he calls the police to have you
forcibly removed. He’s done it before.”
Not wishing to bring his unbearable anger upon herself, Flora turned away from Suzette
and finished her duties for the day. The other women who stood by said nothing. No words of
comfort or help met Suzette’s ears—only a cold silence and indifference that shattered her faith
in humanity.
The intolerable cruelty caused hot tears to run down her face as she ran upstairs to her cot
and packed her few things into her small, tattered suitcase. She shook in fear as she walked
down the wooden staircase, ignored by the women she passed, and exited the door to the street.
Gas lamps lit her path, but only a few people and carriages traversed the avenue.
Afraid her life was in danger, she turned right and walked aimlessly down the sidewalk.
Tears trickled down her cheeks, blurring her vision. She tried to keep her wits about her, as she
wiped her eyes with the back of her sleeve to stop the flood.
Her feet carried her in the same direction she walked every day for months—straight
toward the Chabanais. Almost blindly, Suzette headed for the only place she knew where others
knew of her existence. She thought of the interior warmth and beauty of the brothel and
wondered if Madame Laurent would be merciful enough to allow her to spend the night. She
would make her way to the shelter tomorrow on the other side of town.
As she arrived at the Chabanais, she stood hesitantly by the corner of the building watching
the brothel entrance. She spotted a few well-to-do men in black top hats leaving the premises in
waiting carriages. Fearful to approach until everyone had departed, she stood in the shadows for
fifteen minutes.
When Suzette felt it was safe, she scurried down the dark alley until she came to the back
entrance. She turned the doorknob, and to her surprise found it unlocked. Desperate, she opened
the door and stepped inside hearing voices and activity in the kitchen. Every eye turned in her
direction, and the room grew quiet. Madame Laurent saw her shivering body and came to her
side.
“Suzette! My God, what are you doing here? You look positively frightful!”
Unable to control the floodgate of tears, Suzette stood rigid, sobbing like a child. “They—
he—he fired me, Madame. I have nowhere to go, to sleep—nowhere...” She couldn’t finish the
words.
Madame Laurent hugged Suzette and smiled at Nadine over the success of her plan. A few
girls standing nearby giggled.
“You can spend the night here, dear. I couldn’t bear to think of you sleeping in the alley.
God knows you’d be raped by morning or found dead by the police, oui?”
Her words frightened Suzette so much that she stepped farther inside the ironic haven of the
brothel, fearful of what was behind her back.
“Follow me.”
She grabbed Suzette’s hand and led her up a back staircase at the end of the long hallway
that she had walked daily to carry out her duties. The narrow stairs climbed upward to the far
end of the second floor. After a few short steps down another hallway, she opened a door to a
room.
“Most of my girls live here at the brothel.”
Frightened and embarrassed, Suzette hoped that the brothel mistress wouldn’t reveal too
much about life inside a house of sin. Madame Laurent walked over to a closet and flung open
the double doors to reveal a large assortment of beautiful clothes and nightgowns.
“There’s a bath chamber adjacent to this room through that door. Take a bath, and you can
use this for the night.”
Suzette gasped at the beauty of the silken material, thanking her profusely.
“I’m so grateful for your kindness, Madame Laurent.”
“Don’t think twice about it. I only ask that you stay in this room the remainder of the
evening. I’m afraid there are a few stragglers with some of my girls, and I don’t wish them to
find you wandering around. Wash up and get a decent night’s sleep. We’ll talk in the morning.”
“Yes, ma’am.”
Madame Laurent smiled reassuringly. “Sleep well, Suzette. At least tonight you are safe,
oui?”
She watched as the door closed behind her and felt relieved that she was off the streets.
Suzette sat down on the bed and felt the softness welcome her tired body. Her hand brushed the
white linen pillowcase, no doubt washed and carried by her own toil. When she pushed down on
the fabric, the goose down feathers plumped at her touch, and Suzette began to cry.
She was surrounded by luxury. Two beds occupied the room, and Suzette wondered who
slept in the other. Gorgeous coverlets, rugs, light fixtures, and framed artwork decorated the
interior. It was nothing like the opulence she viewed in the parlor downstairs, but it held its own
beauty and comfort. It was such a stark contrast to the dark room with four cots that she slept in
for months.
Suzette enjoyed the momentary comfort, but knew it would not last forever. Soon, she
would see the Daughters of Charity again. She had gone full circle, back to the beginning with
no work and facing the prospects of living on the streets.
Unable to handle the uncertainties of the future, she buried her head in the soft pillow and
sobbed. When she had finished pouring out her heart, she made her way into bath chamber and
washed her face before climbing under the sheets in the silky nightgown. Finally, exhaustion
won its battle, and Suzette drifted off into a deep sleep.
She woke early the next morning to find Nadine in the other bed. Not too keen on her
roommate, she ignored her presence while focusing on her new-found comfort. For the first
time in many months, she felt pampered. If it were not for the fact she was sleeping inside a
brothel, she wouldn’t have given it a second thought. It felt no different than a comfortable
boarding house.
As she lay on her back, she stared at the ceiling above thinking about what to do next.
Nadine’s sleepy voice interrupted her pondering.
“I see you’re awake.” She sat up in bed and looked at Suzette wrapped like a baby in
blankets pulled up under her chin. “Madame Laurent warned me that you were my new roomy.”
Nadine heaved a sigh, flung off her blankets, and stood up stark naked. She stretched out
both arms over her head and let out a loud yawn.
Suzette’s eyes widened. Nadine’s body curved in every direction, and at the sight of her
unashamed nakedness, Suzette turned her face in the other direction. Her long, blond hair
cascaded about her exposed breasts. She looks like Lady Godiva, only without the white horse,
Suzette thought.
“Oh, for God’s sake,” Nadine quipped, disgusted over Suzette’s reaction. “It’s not like
you’ve never seen a woman’s body before. You look at your own every day!”
She snatched a black silk robe from the foot of her bed and slipped her arms through the
sleeves. After pulling the sash tight around her waist, she warned Suzette.
“If you intend on staying here, you might as well get over your queasiness for naked
bodies.” Her feet slid through her open-toed slippers as she continued. “Believe me, you’ll see
them all the time...everywhere.”
Suzette shot back in anger. “I have no intention of staying here.”
Nadine smirked. “Oh, and where will you go? Wander the streets and sleep in alleys?”
Her roommate sauntered into the bath chamber and left Suzette stewing over her words. A
few minutes later she came back insisting that she get dressed and head downstairs.
“We don’t dilly-dally in the mornings around here either. Every one of us has chores to do
in order to keep this place looking as pleasant as it is. Bridgette will want to speak with you.”
“Bridgette?”
“Madame Laurent. That’s her first name, but she doesn’t let everybody call her that.”
Nadine dressed and then impatiently waited for Suzette to do the same. She looked at her in
disgust, as she slipped into her dirty clothes she had arrived in the night before. Annoyed over
the smell, she spoke her displeasure.
“My God. Don’t you have anything else?” she complained with a heartless sneer.
“No, I’m afraid I don’t. You’ll just have to deal with it.”
Suzette opened the door and walked ahead of Nadine, hoping to get away from her, but
then she realized she didn’t know which way to go. Nadine grabbed her by the elbow and pulled
her along toward the back staircase, causing Suzette to stumble.
“Come along. This way.” Nadine pranced down the stairs and burst into the kitchen with
Suzette in tow. “Look what the cat dragged in,” she announced, as she hurled her into the
middle of the room.
“Really, Nadine, is that necessary?”
Madame Laurent flashed a disapproving glare. Her act of protest in Suzette’s defense
surprised her. Three other women stood in the kitchen clad in robes, munching on pastries and
drinking coffee.
“Did you sleep well?”
“Yes, ma’am.” Suzette spotted a tray of pastries, and her tongue licked her lips. She hadn’t
eaten since noon the day before and was famished. Bridgette encouraged her to partake.
“Go ahead and have something to eat.” She pushed the tray of pastries in her direction, and
everyone watched Suzette reach for a croissant. She shoved it in her mouth and devoured it
within a few moments. Bridgette poured coffee in a cup, added a bit of cream and sugar, and
handed it to Suzette, who gratefully received its contents.
“I’m afraid not many of us drink tea, but if you wish, I can boil you a pot of hot water.”
She shook her head no, while holding the warm cup between the palms of her hands. “No,
this will do fine.” After a few sips of coffee, she began to hunger for another croissant. “May
I?”
“Of course, eat as many as you like and get your fill. When you’re done, come find me in
my office, and we’ll talk,” she said, while patting her on the shoulder. She flashed a friendly
smile and then left Suzette alone in the kitchen with the other women.
“Madame Laurent is a nice lady.” A thick Irish accent caught Suzette’s attention, and she
turned her head in the woman’s direction. “We are all fortunate to live here.”
Suzette looked at a fiery redhead whose porcelain, fair complexion accentuated the shade of
her hair. She was beautiful.
“I appreciate her taking me in for the night. Truly, I do,” she replied, with a mouth full of
pastry. She swallowed a lump down her throat. “I’m sorry. Forgive my rudeness. I’m terribly
hungry.”
Suzette turned and looked at the other woman who stood nearby, fascinated by her Asian
appearance. She was petite in stature, and her midnight black hair shined like onyx. After
staring at her for some time, the strange woman encouraged her with a sly smile.
“You’d be a fool if you return to the streets. We have warm beds and plenty of food.”
The free advice flowing through the room began to make her nervous. Nadine stood silently
by listening to the conversation with a silly grin on her face. Like a cornered animal, Suzette
wanted to escape the glaring eyes of prostitutes, who were clearly trying to sway her decision.
She warily looked at all three of them, and then swallowed hard, forcing the last bit of food
down to her stomach.
“Could one of you show me to Madame Laurent’s office?”
She expected Nadine to do the honors, but was surprised when the Irish redhead leaped
forward and grabbed her hand. “Follow me. I’ll show you the way.”
Pulled out the kitchen door, through the parlor, and into the entrance, Suzette had no time
to protest her rash treatment. Before a word of displeasure could escape her lips, she suddenly
stood in the opulent foyer of the brothel. Suzette halted and pulled her hand from the woman’s
grasp with a quick jerk.
A broad, sweeping staircase with a plush red carpet led to the second floor. Potted palm
plants decorated the area, with mahogany side tables brimming with fresh flowers. A deep, rich
oriental rug paved the floor for the arrival of royalty and aristocrats. However, the most
impressive site was the enormous crystal chandelier hanging from the ceiling above.
“Oh, my God,” she cried, “this is beautiful!”
The redhead laughed as she watched Suzette’s head tilt back, eyeing the dangling crystal
orbs that sparkled overhead.
“I’m Annette, by the way,” she said. “You’ve seen nothing yet, if you think this is pretty.”
Suzette lowered her stare from the crystal chandelier and followed Annette to a closed door
off to the right of the foyer. After a quick knuckle tap on the wooden door, Madame Laurent’s
voice called out and bid them entrance.
“Here she is,” announced Annette with a smile.
Suzette found Madame Laurent behind a large mahogany desk sitting in a red leather chair,
which surrounded her like a queen’s throne. Annette closed the door, and Suzette jumped after
hearing it shut. Nervous and alone, she turned toward Madame Laurent.
“Please, have a seat.”
The brothel mistress pointed to the chair in front of her desk. Slowly, Suzette walked to a
chair and sat down on cushy comfort.
Madame Laurent focused on Suzette. She smiled at the pretty, regal face. It looked as if she
had washed it the night before, but she needed so much more. Her hair was filthy, and she
smelled horrible. Suzette’s nails harbored black dirt underneath, and her poor hands were
cracked and red.
“So tell me, Suzette, have you thought anymore about my offer? Since you’re unemployed,
I would think you would be interested in becoming one of my girls.” Madame Laurent carefully
studied the movement of Suzette’s body, which she noticed stiffened over her inquiry.
Suzette lowered her head and broke eye contact. She folded her hands in her lap. “I do not
think, Madame, that this is an occupation I wish to pursue.”
Madame Laurent flung back, “And what occupation do you think you can pursue? You
were not exactly successful as a laundress. Without references, do you think you’ll find work
quickly anywhere else?”
Suzette shifted in her seat, which only encouraged her interrogator. “At least here, you’d
have a comfortable and clean place to live, and a much better paying position.”
“Yes, but not my reputation,” Suzette interrupted, raising her eyebrows in protest.
“Reputation?” She grinned slyly. “I have one of the most revered reputations in Paris
among the male population. There’s something to be said, Suzette, about meeting the needs of
men who cannot find satisfaction in their marriage beds. At least here, they find comfort and
passion.”
She paused momentarily to soften her voice and confidently leaned back in her red leather
throne. Suzette said nothing for some time and then finally answered.
“Perhaps, but I’m—I’m a virgin, Madame, and I don’t wish to give myself to strange men.”
Madame Laurent laughed aloud at the absurdity of her answer. “I would think, my dear, it
would be a small price to pay—the loss of one’s virginity—when you weigh the dire
consequences you face. I dare say, you are homeless and will be crawling back to the Daughters
of Charity again. I do hope they have room. If not, you’ll end up prostituting yourself on the
street anyway, as soon as your stomach continues to gnaw at you day and night. Your feet and
hands will be cold from sleeping on the hard ground. You’ll no doubt be raped within a week,
because you’ll have no one to protect you, diseased within a month, and dead within three.”
The last words that fell from the mistress’s lips were cold and cruel. Madame Laurent
allowed the harsh reality of Suzette’s situation to take root. Surely, fear would sway the girl’s
decision.
“Do you really think losing your virginity is too great a price to pay in order to find safe
shelter, a warm bed, clothing, and food in your stomach each day?”
She waited long enough without a response and stood up from behind her desk. Madame
Laurent walked to Suzette’s side and hovered above her shaking body, watching the young
girl’s knees bob up and down like apples in a barrel of water.
“Being a prostitute does have its rewards. You’ll soon learn about fleshly pleasures you
have no idea exist,” she offered in a sultry voice. She curled a smile upon her red lips and
brushed away a stray curl from the Suzette’s face.
“Don’t be a foolish woman, Suzette. I dare say you have no other choice.”
Suzette felt horrified. Do I actually have no other choice? What about my future? She
looked up at Madame Laurent’s face, wondering if her prophesy were true. If I walk out that
door right now, will I be dead in three months? Her mind swirled with wicked possibilities that
awaited her on the streets. She desperately tried to convince herself that she could find work
elsewhere, and then wondered if there was another way around the Madame’s offer.
“May I stay here and work in some other capacity for you? Maybe you need a housekeeper
or cook—anything other than what you’re offering me!”
“No,” she replied emphatically. There was no room for negotiation. “In fact, if you do not
accept my offer now, here this minute, you might as well get up and walk out the door, Suzette.
I will not waste another night giving you a warm bed for nothing in return.”
Madame Laurent unfeelingly turned away from Suzette, walked behind her desk, and sat
down. She picked up her quill pen, dipped it in the ink well, and began writing notes on a piece
of paper, determined to ignore the sniveling, foolish girl in her office.
“Why are you doing this to me?”
Madame Laurent remained silent.
“You are forcing me to make a decision I do not want!”
“I do it for your own good,” she coldly replied. She lifted her dark, brown eyes and peered
at Suzette in disgust. “Your foolishness astounds me, frankly.”
Suzette sat shivering like a timid mouse in front of a cat. It was time to play her last card on
the table to seal her fate.
“If you do not accept my offer, you can be assured I will make certain no one hires you in
this city. I have connections in all the low-lying businesses who hire girls like you, and I will
forewarn every sweathouse, restaurant, or store that you are useless. I will blacklist you,
Suzette. You’ll starve in an alley like the rest of the beggars who walk the streets of Paris.”
Madame Laurent’s anger pushed her to a new level. As she looked one last time at Suzette
waiting for her to make a decision, she knew if the girl had half a backbone, perhaps she would
have been less heartless.
Suzette looked into her eyes and believed every word spoken. Her shoulders drooped in
defeat, and she raised her hands wiping tears from her face. It appeared fate had made the
choice, and her life would be damned for the sake of survival. She was too weak to fight the
inevitable and too afraid to protest her treatment. In a barely audible voice, she conceded.
“All right, then.”
“All right, what, Suzette?”
She looked at Madame Laurent, who she now despised, and agreed to her proposal.
“I will become one of your prostitutes.”
Suzette’s surrender brought immense satisfaction to a woman who always got what she
wanted. Her attitude quickly changed, and she responded with delight.
“Good! A wise choice.” Her voice carried the victory of closing another business deal, and
she proceeded with the details of the arrangement.
“You will need to comply with the law, of course, before you can enter the Chabanais. As
soon as you are able, report to the Bureau des Mouers and register as a prostitute. I know it
might be embarrassing, but my brothel is followed closely and licensed by the authorities.
Unless I comply, they will shut me down in a heartbeat. Do you understand?”
“Yes, Madame,” Suzette responded unsure of what she was talking about.
“After your registration is complete, there is a one other requirement. You will be
examined by a physician. Once he confirms that you are disease-free—which I assume you are
if you are a virgin like you say—they will release you to report back to me.”
“I will do as you say, Madame.”
“Good, here is my card that you will need to present at the Bureau.” After Suzette had
taken it from her hand, she called out. “Annette, you can come in.”
The door flung open, and the young redhead entered, waiting for instructions. As an
accomplice, she had been patiently standing in the hallway anticipating new orders.
“Please, take Suzette upstairs. Give the girl a bath, wash her hair, and find suitable clothing.
Then take her this afternoon to the Bureau des Mouers to register. You can hire a carriage.” She
opened up her drawer, drew out a few francs, and handed them to Annette. “Use this for your
fare.”
Annette took the money from Madame Laurent’s hand and flashed a broad smile to her
mistress over her conquest. She turned toward Suzette and offered a hand. “Come along,
sweetie. It’s time to take a bath and wash that nasty scum off your body.”
Madame Laurent looked at Suzette, assured that she procured a valuable addition to her
establishment. The poor girl fell into her trap—50 francs to a greedy manager, a late night
dismissal arranged at the right moment, and a frightened rabbit coming to the only person who
had befriended her pitiful life. The fly had flown into the web, and now she belonged to the
spider.
There was one more piece of business left to attend to. She picked up her quill, dipped it in
the inkwell, and began to write a note. A sly smile curled her red lips, as she thought fondly of
the addressee.

