Scarlett O'hara who had been considered by many the most attractive girl in the Clayton County, who had enjoyed all the pleasures a great fortune can provide only to lose everything and have to fight for her own survival, that Scarlett died the same day she understood that Rhett was never going to come back. Or at least that part of her personality became so hidden that only someone who had intimately known her would have been able to found some of the old flame in her shriveled green eyes.
Now that she had that preposterous amount of riches that she had been coveting for so many years, she discovered that it no longer signified as she hadn't anybody at her side to enjoy it. But a part of her knew that those were all absurd romantic considerations, as she had learned from the war like all the rest of the people of the South to fully appreciate a comfortable bed and a solid roof above her head, and her expensive tastes in delicate foods and extravagant, fashionable clothes were so inherent to her own personality as her extreme greediness.
No, Scarlett knew that wealth was not something to be easily despised, but she deeply missed Rhett or maybe, as he had hinted to her in one of her later exchanges, she missed that energy that only having an impossible objective could supply. She felt empty, alone and old, and that last thing was what she could fear the most. How was even possible for Scarlet O'Hara to feel old? She never thought that she would live enough to feel that way. The Irish blood that was running through her veins was fighting with all her forces against that situation, but the Robillard blood, Ellen's blood, seemed to accept it all like a natural thing.
Scarlett, who had always secretly wished to become a true lady like her mother and had never been capable of it in spite of all her efforts, now had to confront herself to the disgusting truth that the only way of reaching that goal was to sacrifice all the vitality of her father's blood. Now she was a lady for the others it was true, but she felt dead inside. She started to understand, horrified, that maybe something exactly like that had happened to Ellen Robillard, and she had to force herself to forget that thought, that blasphemy of thinking that her mother hadn't been a lady and a saint for her own virtues but because life hadn't given her any other choice.
Scarlett O'hara, who now owned everything but had nothing she really cared for, had decided to start a new life far away from Rhett, Ashley and her sons, and although the children had never been of any importance to her, to distance herself from the two persons who had marked her life in so many ways, felt like an amputation. It was not so surprising after all that she was slowly losing all her vitality as the O'hara blood kept flowing through her open wound.
No, Scarlett was not used to accept defeat or to retreat, but now her confused mind couldn't find any other solution. Rhett's determination had been so strong and her own disenchantment with Ashley so intense, that she had to flee and keep running as fast as she could. Especially now that Tara without Mammy's hearty presence, was only the sinister grave of her youth and hopes, a place she could only visit in her frequent nightmares.
Scarlett O'hara, who once had been a fine example of what all the energy and strong will of the New World was capable of, had arrived to Europe tired and defeated, but it was difficult to determine how much of her had remained in America when she had left the continent.
But soon after her arrival, Scarlett managed to lose herself in a whirlwind of silken clothes, exclusive fragrances and chocolate and caramel macaroons. Paris was the place and she could easily fool herself thinking that the only mistake of her life had been not coming sooner, as there she had found everything she could have wished for.
Scarlett could grant herself anything that money could buy and her antics, which had been so frowned upon in Atlanta's conservative and oppressive society, were here celebrated instead. She was American, she was beautiful, she had money and she had guts so Paris couldn't do any other thing that fall at her feet and show her its admiration. Could have she found after all those years a place where she could truly be accepted for what she really was? The apparent paradox of the old world being far more accepting of originality and freedom of spirit than the new one wasn't lost in her, but she didn't dare analyze the implications of it and just gratefully accepted God's little unexpected gifts.
She didn't even feel the need to try to contact the Robillards that had remained in the continent, so great was that feeling of freedom she was enjoying for the first time in her life. At last she could act without any restraint, knowing that anyone entitled to judge her was very far away, and for a while she could only think about the next robe, the next luxurious dinner, the next night at the Opera, without any other care in the world.
But one of the old voices soon returned and although it should have been easy to discard as it wasn't even real, she had problems ignoring his wounding remarks. Rhett insisted on her head that all the adoration that surrounded her was fake and people were always ready to celebrate even a monkey as long as it throw enough money around it.
Scarlett could think that Rhett could go to hell for all she cared for but she couldn't ignore his sound advice nonetheless. Had she crossed the sea only to start repeating the same errors that had doomed her life in America? Had she not learned anything at all about her own feelings and shortcomings? If she didn't want another downfall, she had to change, she had to evolve and if she had managed to stop drinking and to survive after Rhett's rejection, she would manage to find a new way of living and some peace of spirit.
That new determination had to sustain her now that the fake vitality that her arrival to France had provided her was slowly fading. The old Scarlett had only resurfaced for a short while before being buried in an even deeper ground this time, and Rhett was both to thank and to blame for it.
However, finding a new way of living couldn't be considered precisely an easy task. Scarlet feared that even if she ended up being refined enough to grant her admission into the most elevated French society she would always be considered an outsider, as she would always be recognized as an O'hara and not as a Robillard. But in the other hand, if she ended up being a lady just like Ellen and they dared not appreciate the true value of that, she didn't think they were a society worth frequenting to begin with anyway.
But how could she become like Ellen? Scarlett had always known that a big part of her former hatred towards poor Melanie was unrelated to her childish jealously due to Ashley preferring her, but came in fact from the understanding that she was in most aspects what Ellen would have expected her daughter to be. Had Helen herself realized it before dying? It was an unsettling thought and she had to force herself to quickly discard it.
She could never be like Melanie, she could never have that sort of silent courage that would put to shame the bragging of so many big men. She could never be so gentle, so compassionate, so self-denying. If somebody hurt Scarlett , God knew that she would hunt him down and make sure that he would get hurt in turn, if somebody had what she wanted she would try to take it and she would be bitter until the end if she failed. Those were the facts and she could only accept them and go on from there to see where that knowledge of herself could take her.
If being a lady didn't come naturally to her, it would have to come from some learning, and Scarlett almost hated more that thought than her juvenile dream of just changing her character from scratch. She had always scorned well-learned people and if there was something she could detest more than losing her valuable time reading herself, it would be having someone teach her good manners and all kind of unpractical social graces at the advanced age of 28. If Ellen had so sorely failed at that, being as it was one of the main purposes of her sad life, which stranger could be up to the formidable task?
Rhett, who had always admired her wild character, would probably have answered that fortunately for her, she would find someone to teach her how to be a lady when pigs would fly. But Rhett wasn't at her side anymore and had lost long ago all rights to give his input on that or any other matter, both in person or by mental proxy.
But even he, despite all his ingrained cynicism, would have felt some compassion had he been able to understand the extent of her desperation. Scarlett had decided to appeal to the highest instance she knew but had not always respected, God.
When she finally entered into the church she was amazed to find some of that feeling of absorption and insignificance that her mother had always mentioned, but Scarlett had never been able to find in the monotony and dullness of the family mass at Tara. She would have even doubted the existence of such a feeling if it wasn't for her constant faith in Ellen Robillard if not in God, and when very little, she had arrived to the scary conclusion that there was something inherently bad in her as she couldn't bring herself to feel the awe she could notice in dearest Mammy's eyes.
But there, there was no need of pretending, the humbling feeling had just come to her when she had found herself for the first time under the gorgeous roof of Notre Dame. There was something bigger than Scarlett in that building and somehow she didn't resent it, even if she had never received any help that she knew from that superior being. Scarlett couldn't deny that there was something mystifying in the way the silk of her dress swept the impeccable ground and she found herself almost dancing, but even she was conscious of the impiety of such a frivolous act.
She abruptly stopped her visit and almost fled from the opulent place, followed by the curious eyes of some of the churchgoers whose attention have been grabbed and pulled away from God by that woman exquisitely dressed and disappointed to tears. Before coming back to their prayers maybe some of them even wondered about the reason for her distress.
Rhett would have understood though. Scarlett had fooled herself into thinking that she had found some of Ellen and Melanie's piety for some minutes, only to bitterly end up realizing that all her reverence for the place just came from the fact of having found a stage gorgeous and magnificent enough to display herself, just as she would have done at sixteen.
Scarlett turned herself with dignity to face the unknown speaker, whose tone of voiced had revealed a concern so marked that even her very limited understanding of the French language couldn't conceal.
Maybe she had been crying a little on a bridge over the Seine but that didn't give that perfect stranger the right to look at her with insufferable pity, as if she was about to jump to her death. Scarlett hated the cowards that were not strong enough to accept life in its own terms and it particularly irritated her to be mistaken for one in their ranks.
"Ses yeux, mon dieu…" he mumbled.
The stranger had stepped backwards and seemed to need some seconds before being able to add any other word. Then he revealed himself quite the courtesan, for Scarlett's merriment.
"My sincere apologies, madame." His accent was strong, his manners flamboyant, "I thought you were in trouble."
She couldn't avoid returning the smile of that little, theatrical man when he took his hat off in a gesture of studied reverence. He was quite young and with just one look to his attire and his messy copper-colored hair even Scarlett, a neophyte in the matter, could correctly guess that he was some kind of bohemian. His kind was well represented in the area that day, attracted by an early March's surprisingly good weather. The river was sparkling just as in one of their scandalous paintings.
Scarlett just shook her head as she was not really in the mood to engage in a discussion with such a picturesque character, and she didn't thought herself in the best of looks to talk with anybody even if she had felt like it. Traces of tears were still present on her face and she didn't dare dry them with her handkerchief as she risked further ruining her elaborated makeup.
"Madame, I want to paint you," said the little man fervently, trying to stop her from leaving as her face had clearly betrayed her intentions.
"I'm afraid I'm not interested," she said as dryly as she could.
"I'll paint you in the garden, next to the flowers, surrounded by green, a green as strong as the green of your eyes…" He seemed to have entered in some kind of reverie, giving Scarlett all his attention but at the same time not seeing her real self anymore, "The sun titillating all over you and the grass and the petals," his smile wavered, "the dress won't do though. It's just too… too much, like the makeup. You don't need them."
Scarlett had to contain her indignation but luckily for the little man, she was so tired and out of spirits that she couldn't oppose any significant resistance. It was also true that it was certainly comforting to listen at her age that makeup wasn't really necessary, even if she was only too conscious that she was far from her prime.
"I'll be famous, madame, you'll be famous, too!" Scarlett walked away as fast as she could in spite of her dress and the man kept talking while trying to keep her pace. "You'll be a part of our movement."
Scarlett sighed, thinking that the uncomfortable situation could have been easily avoided if only she had brought with her one of the menservants to her excursion, as her personal attendant had strongly suggested. The streets next to the river were crowded but she wouldn't belittle herself to the point of asking for help. If she had been capable of dealing with those dirty Yankees she wouldn't panic now before the insistence of an overly-enthusiastic young artist.
"I'm a lady, monsieur," she finally said stopping and deciding to show so much determination that the man wouldn't end up having any other option than leaving her alone, "I'm not interested in the least in your… art. And it would be highly improper on my part to lend myself to that kind of degrading experience. I'm sure if you apply to one of your acquaintances, one of the women in… your circle, you would be able to find a more encouraging answer."
He surprised her by openly laughing, as if the notion of a degrading experience related to his art was unthinkable.
"Improper, madame? You'll be the envy of all the marquises, duchesses, rich heiress and proud 'bourgeoises' of Paris. How many times they have begged me, Julien Morisse, to paint them? How much money they have put at my feet only to be cruelly dismissed without a second thought? No, madame, Julien Morisse doesn't care about position nor money, Julien Morisse only cares about his art. And when your painting will decorate the walls of the most exclusive hôtel in Paris to be admired by the highest class society of the whole continent, then and only then, Julien Morisse will be satisfied."
Scarlet hesitated because if half of what he was saying was true, that could be her opportunity of entering into the restrictive aristocratic society she craved for. But even if she hadn't stayed for long in Paris by then, she knew that many painters were ostracized and an association with them will close her some doors susceptible of never opening again.
"You can't trust me," he said easily reading her thoughts, "but what if I could introduce you to one of them, madame?" Scarlet raised her eyebrows, "Yes, one of them, madame," he knowingly nodded, "A duke. He will confirm each one of my words, indeed he will. And once you are convinced of the truth, Julien Morisse will accept your commission for a painting that will make both of us immortal."
That was a language that Scarlett could understand and it was reassuring to find at last a point of reference in that curious and novel situation. He had talked about a commission, so actually he had been talking about money during all his florid speech, and although Scarlett had no patience to deal with artsy people she was on her element when business was the subject of conversation. Still a bit disoriented though for all the strong emotions that had invaded her by turns that day, Scarlett surrendered and gave her card to the little man. She would wait for his visit and he would bring the duke, and she would haggle over the price of the painting, of course. And she wondered while coming back to her new home if the fame of her portrait will not end up extending farther away than that part of the world one day.
Julien Morisse had some errands to do before also being able to go home and his highest priority was of course to contact the duke. They had important matters to talk about after all, so he had to reach the hôtel of his friend in the extremely coveted sixth arrondissement. His entrance into the solemn building didn't raise any eyebrows in spite of his clothes, he was known for freely entering the house at the most untimely hours, as his closeness with the duke granted.
"I found it," he calmly claimed while entering into the duke's private chamber.
The bedroom was almost in the darkness, the blinds shut. The duke promptly replied, but without getting up from his bed or even bothering to move at all.
"Who?"
"Rich, very rich. Probably American. You should have seen her dress, in the poorest taste of course but the fabric, the cut," he gesticulated across the room avoiding the empty bottles on the floor, "her fortune has to be immense and she doesn't seem to have anyone to guard it," he made a dramatic pause, "or guard her, for that matter."
"When?"
"Soon enough. It shouldn't be difficult to arrange, that's it, if we take the usual precautions…" said Julien taking seat on one of the corners of the obscenely large bed. He bumped into something, "Oh, my bad."
"You are dispensed now," the duke said.
A naked, blond, young woman got up from the bed, quickly took her clothes neatly folded up next to the entrance door and quietly left. Julien Morisse and the duke didn't look once towards her while she was in the room and kept talking as if she had never existed once the door closed behind her.
"Are you sure this time is the real thing?" said the duke while seating on the bed. He tried to stand up but he had to reconsider when his head mercilessly menaced to explode, "It's not the first time you have said that or something similar to that and then..." he didn't finish the sentence with words but a gesture of his hands expressed all the frustration accumulated on previous attempts.
"If you had seen her as I saw her, standing so dangerously close to that river and then facing me with those incensed emerald eyes, a bit reddened because of her tears just for a more dramatic effect, you wouldn't doubt it either."
The duke was again lying on his bed, slowly massaging his tormented temples.
"Good. It was about time."
While being conducted to Scarlett's presence, the duke conceded an appreciative gaze to the house and its furniture. Although not comparable to his own demure in surroundings or grandeur, there was there some discrete elegance, some respect for the old forms and the old graces that couldn't surprise him. The house had been let not long ago and her new owner hadn't still the time to disgrace it with her uneducated taste. The duke expected that that would be his first and only visit, at least to spare himself the heartache of seeing the noble lodgings desecrated forever more.
Scarlett was waiting for him, standing like a queen in the center of the room. She had wondered for a while how to act, how to present herself at their first meeting to give him a lasting impression that would grant her his good wishes, but she completely ignored the protocol when dealing with the ones of his kind, and even in the rare occasions in America where she had forced herself to acknowledge the most elementary rules of etiquette, she had done so with lackluster results.
When he entered in the room and conceded her an amused smile, she put the hands on her waist and faced him, defiantly. The smile was there to stay, but a new appreciation seemed to dawn on his eyes. With a gesture of her hand, Scarlett asked him to sit down. She realized with shame that she didn't even know his name, his title having granted him direct access to her parlor.
I'm the duke of Sevigne. It's a pleasure to meet you, madam, he clarified.
It has been really nice of you to pay me a visit with such a short notice, she said sitting down and indicating to her lady servant that she could serve the goûter and then leave. These pastries are absolutely delicious, your grace. Please try one.
The duke did and found them as delicious as they had been proclaimed to be, but couldn't match Scarlett's enjoyment of them or her voracity. In her credit it must be said that she was so nervous at the perspective of starting the conversation that she preferred to keep her mouth conveniently occupied for the moment being. He seemed to understand at least a bit of her feelings, as he gently assumed his duties as a gentleman and took care of the initial discourse.
A dear friend of mine has asked my intercession to convince you, Miss O'hara, of the pureness of his intentions. A painting, the opportunity of leaving a portrait of you for posterity is the only thing that occupies his mind since the first moment he saw you. He's an artist and I can understand your initial distrust, you behaved just as your delicacy dictated you.
Scarlett glowed at this compliment as she had never been attributed any delicacy by any of her acquaintance ever, as far as she knew. The duke of Sevigne was intelligent enough to take advantage of any overtures, when he saw them, and there there was obviously one.
I applaud your conduct and your precautions, Miss. O'hara, you won't find anyone as sensible as me to the dangers of a rushed, careless connection for the good reputation of a lady. As a Sevigne, I can't ignore the implications. A woman hasn't only to be irreproachable; she also has to look so.
Scarlett liked him. She couldn't rely on the purity of her own intentions as he seemed to do, but it was certainly agreeable to listen to someone express her worries in such terms. She dreamt of becoming a real lady, but appearances were of the upmost importance for her. Let them believe her to be a lady, that's all she really cared for now, until she managed to achieve the incredible goal of becoming one.
Has Mr. Morisse ever painted you, your grace? Every time Scarlet addressed him in that way, she experienced a flutter of excitement and childish pleasure that she could barely hide.
He was a bit startled by her question, but still amused.
Mr. Morisse prefers women, I'm afraid. But yes, he condescended to grant me once that honor. Although probably his motives were rather dubious, he was in great need of money at the time. - He detected the disappointment on Scarlett's eyes. - It's no longer the case, madame, allow me to assure you that his situation now permits him to choose his models as he pleases.
And even being so, he has chosen me. - Scarlett said arching her eyebrows.
The duke just shrugged his shoulders, a gesture that Scarlett had to admit, was particularly befitting in his case. He seemed to have shrugged most things in life with the same easiness.
The art has its reasons, - he offered as the only explanation. - I won't presume to know your character well enough, Miss O'hara, after all, we have just met, but I think the real question hidden behind those fascinating eyes is in fact "what can I get from this affair?"
Scarlett returned his smile, tolerating his audacity with unusual calmness. She could recognize an equal when she had one in front of her. But she was obstinate enough to not dignify his question with an answer all the same.
Will Mr. Buttler join us soon, madame? It would be a great honor to make his acquaintance, I've heard the most fascinating things about him and his actions during your last war, - he said in a slow, sinuous way. Scarlett could almost see him transform into a snake before her eyes.
Scarlett opened her mouth, ashamed and angry. She was now standing up again, she won't tolerate that kind of ferocious attack under her own roof. She would make him leave immediately and she would bear the consequences later, as she was used to do.
Sevigne silenced her before she had the time to recollect her thoughts enough to be intelligible.
Excuse me for my bluntness. - This time he granted her a real reverence, as formal as distinguished as she had never had the opportunity of seeing before. - I just thought it would be easier for both of us to speed a bit this conversation. Your secret is safe with me, madame. Luckily for you, Paris has not my eyes, nor my ears. The reasons for presenting yourself as an unengaged woman don't concern me in the least, but you have to understand that even I, with all the prerogatives of my sex and my position, can risk myself to appear next to an unknown lady, charming as she can be, that seems to be loaded with at least one dangerous secret.
I don't understand. What was your point then in coming to my house? Why do you ask about my husband instead of minding your own business? - her voice was voluntarily low and almost calm. She didn't want the servants to listen to any of her diatribe.
I was curious about you, - he admitted. - I wanted to know your reasons to accept Morisse's proposal only once you thought a member of the nobility was involved.
I want to become a lady, - Scarlet found herself saying. She never thought she would admit that desire in front of any living person. But she said it proudly nonetheless, Gerald's jaw showing through her features. - Rhett has nothing to do with it.
But she couldn't believe herself. Why was she there after all? Why had she chosen Paris from all places? It wasn't because of the food, the dresses, the wine or a connection with the Robillard family that in the end she couldn't help but despise. It was only because Rhett had said that he would wander through the world starting by England and maybe Paris, in search of that something else, that something that was missing in his life. And Scarlett still wanted to show him that that something was still her. Even he would have to recognize it once he had witnessed her transformation into an elegant, wise and accomplished woman, just like the ones he admired. That was the real reason behind all her decisions since she had left America and now she had to deal with this knowledge of herself, although she would have give anything to keep ignoring everything, at least for a couple of weeks more. She felt like a child again, cold and alone in the darkness.
The duke of Sevigne knelt down at her feet and kissed her hand briefly.
I vow to help you, Miss O'hara. - she heard him said in the middle of her distress as if he was talking from a long, long distance. - I give you my word to do everything in my power to help you.
Later, back at the home of his ancestors in the 6émè arrondissement, the duke summarized their tete-a-tete to an anxious Morisse.
She must suffice you, - he said finishing another drink. One more than Morisse thought necessary in his case. - She won't suffice me, - he added throwing the glass to the fire.
Morisse found himself sweating and not only because of that ill conceived fire in the middle of Spring. The pain of the duke's face was overwhelming.
What are we going to do then? - he asked regretting having ever talked about the american woman. He would have ever done it, had he known the consequences on his only friend.
Sevigne didn't answer for a while, he searched with half closed eyes through the bedroom instead, trying to find another glass to replace the one he had thrown in a pointless fit. Once he had another glass, conveniently filled on his hand he thought himself ready to answer.
I pledged my alliance to her own lost cause, all the same.
You did what? - screamed Morisse forgetting for a second the social distance that separed them, even bearing in mind their close friendship.
The duke looked at him slightly disgusted and Morisse checked himself.
I wasn't insinuating that you don't know what you are doing. I didn't know you had in you to be that... philanthropic, that's all.
His friend started laughing softly.
If only it was that, - he said finishing another drink. - Don't worry, Morisse, I'm far from any real possibility of redemption.