Schwarzie backed away, startled by her ragged howl, dropping his precious silver tape. But he didn’t go very far. He stopped and turned back, rose on his pudgy haunches.
Ignoring his black, humped body she kicked the post she was tied to. Dust and dirt floated down like gray snow but the wood didn’t give a bit. She screamed until her throat burned.
“Bitte. Help me!”
The sticky rush of traffic swallowed the sound.
Stillness for a moment. Then Schwarzie started toward her again. He wasn’t alone this time. The slimy pack followed his lead. Twitching, nervous. But drawn steadily by the tempting smell of her blood.
Bone and wood, wood and bone.
“Mel, what do you have there?” Rhyme was nodding toward the computer attached to the chromatograph-spectrometer. Cooper had once more retested the dirt they’d found in the splinter of wood.
“It’s still nitrogen-rich. Off the charts.”
Three separate tests, the results all the same. A diagnostic check of the unit showed it was working fine. Cooper reflected and said, “That much nitrogen—maybe a firearms or ammunition manufacturer.”
“That’d be Connecticut, not Manhattan.” Rhyme looked at the clock. 6:30. How fast time had raced past today. How slowly it had moved for the past three and a half years. He felt as if he’d been awake for days and days.
The young detective pored over the map of Manhattan, moving aside the pale vertebra that had fallen to the floor earlier.
The disk had been left here by Rhyme’s SCI specialist, Peter Taylor. An early appointment with the man. The doctor had examined him expertly then sat back in the rustling rattan chair and pulled something out of his pocket.
“Show-and-tell time,” the doctor had said. Rhyme had glanced at Taylor’s open hand.
 “This’s a fourth cervical vertebra. Just like the one in your neck. The one that broke. See the little tails on the end?” The doctor turned it over and over for a moment then asked, “What do you think of when you see it?”
Rhyme respected Taylor—who didn’t treat him like a child or a moron or a major inconvenience—but that day he hadn’t been in the mood to play the inspiration game. He hadn’t answered.
Taylor continued anyway, “Some of my patients think it looks like a stingray. Some say it’s a spaceship. Or an airplane. Or a truck. Whenever I ask that question people usually compare it to something big. Nobody ever says, ‘Oh, a hunk of calcium and magnesium.’ See, they don’t like the idea that something so insignificant has made their lives pure hell.”
Rhyme had glanced back at the doctor skeptically but the placid, gray-haired medico was an old hand at SCI patients and he said kindly, “Don’t tune me out, Lincoln.”
Taylor had held the disk up close to Rhyme’s face. “You’re thinking it’s unfair this little thing causing you so much grief. But forget that.Forget it. I want you to remember what it was like before the accident. The good and bad in your life. Happiness, sadness ... You can feel that again.” The doctor’s face had grown still. “But frankly all I see now is somebody who’s given up.”
Taylor had left the vertebra on the bedside table. Accidentally, it seemed. But then Rhyme realized the act was calculated. Over the past months while Rhyme was trying to decide whether or not to kill himself he’d stared at the tiny disk. It became an emblem for Taylor’s argument—the pro-living argument. But in the end that side lost; the doctor’s words, as valid as they might be, couldn’t overcome the burden of pain and heartache and exhaustion Lincoln Rhyme felt day after day after day.
He now looked away from the disk—to Amelia Sachs—and said, “I want you to think about the scene again.”
“I told you everything I saw.”
“Not saw , I want to know what you felt.”
Rhyme remembered the thousands of times he’d run crime scenes. Sometimes a miracle would happen. He’d be looking around and somehow ideas about the unsub would come to him. He couldn’t explain how. The behaviorists talked about profiling as if they’d invented it. But criminalists had been profiling for hundreds of years. Walk the grid, walk where he’s walked, find what he’s left behind, figure out what he’s taken with him—and you’ll come away from the scene with a profile as clear as a portrait.
“Tell me,” he prodded. “What did you feel?”
“Uneasy. Tense. Hot.” She shrugged. “I don’t know. I really don’t. Sorry.”
If he’d been mobile Rhyme would have leapt from the bed, grabbed her shoulders and shaken her. Shouted:But you know what I’m talking about! I know you do. Why won’t you work with me? ... Why are you ignoring me?
Then he understood something. ... That she was there, in the steamy basement. Hovering over T.J.’s ruined body. Smelling the vile smell. He saw it in the way her thumb flicked a bloody cuticle, he saw it in the way she maintained the no-man’s-land of politeness between the two of them. She detested being in
that vile basement, and she hated him for reminding her that part of her was still there. “You’re walking through the room,” he said.
“I really don’t think I can be any more help.”
“Play along,” he said, forcing his temper down. He smiled. “Tell me what you thought.” Her face went still and she said, “It’s ... just thoughts. Impressions everybody’d have.” “But you were there. Everybody wasn’t. Tell us.”
“It was scary or something. ...” She seemed to regret the clumsy word. Unprofessional.
“I felt—”
“Somebody watching you?” he asked.
This surprised her. “Yes. That’s exactly it.”
Rhyme had felt it himself. Many times. He’d felt it three and a half years ago, bending down over the decomposing body of the young policeman, picking a fiber off the uniform. He’d been positive that someone was nearby. But there was no one—just a large oak beam that chose that moment to groan and splinter and come crashing down on the fulcrum of Lincoln Rhyme’s fourth cervical vertebra with the weight of the earth.
“What else did you think, Amelia?”
She wasn’t resisting anymore. Her lips were relaxed, her eyes drifting over the curled Nighthawks poster—the diners, lonely or contentedly alone. She said, “Well, I remember saying to myself, ‘Man, this place is old.’ It was like those pictures you see of turn-of-the-century factories and things. And I—”
“Wait,” Rhyme barked. “Let’s think about that. Old ...”
His eyes strayed to the Randel Survey map. He’d commented before on the unsub’s interest in historical New York. The building where T.J. Colfax had died was old too. And so was the tunnel for the railroad where they’d found the first body. The New York Central trains used to run aboveground. There’d been so many crossing fatalities that Eleventh Avenue had earned the name Death Avenue and the railroad had finally been forced to move the tracks belowground.
“And Pearl Street,” he mused to himself, “was a major byway in early New York. Why’s he so interested in old things?” He asked Sellitto, “Is Terry Dobyns still with us?”
“Oh, the shrink? Yeah. We worked a case last year. Come to think of it, he asked about you. Said he called you a couple times and you never—”
“Right, right, right,” Rhyme said. “Get him over here. I want his thoughts on 823’s patterns. Now, Amelia, what else did you think?”
She shrugged but far too nonchalantly. “Nothing.”
“No?”
And where did she keep her feelings? he wondered, recalling something Blaine had said once, seeing a gorgeous woman walking down Fifth Avenue:The more beautiful the package ,the harder it is to unwrap .
“I don’t know. ... All right, I remember one thing I thought. But it doesn’t mean anything. It’s not, like a professional observation.”
Professional...
It’s a bitch when you set your own standards, ain’t it, Amelia?
“Let’s hear it,” he said to her.
“When you were having me pretend to be him? And I found where he stood to look back at her?” “Keep going.”
“Well, I thought ...” For a moment it seemed that. tears threatened to fill her beautiful eyes. They were iridescent blue, he noticed. Instantly she controlled herself. “I wondered, did she have a dog. The Colfax woman.”
“A dog? Why’d you wonder that?”
She hesitated a moment then said, “This friend of mine ... a few years ago. We were talking about getting a dog when, well, if we moved in together. I always wanted one. A collie. It was funny. That was the kind my friend wanted too. Even before we knew each other.”
“A dog.” Rhyme’s heart popped like beetles on a summer screen door. “And?” “I thought that woman—”
“T.J.,” Rhyme said.
“T.J.,” Sachs continued. “I just thought how sad it was—if she had any pets she wouldn’t be coming home to them and playing with them anymore. I didn’t think about her boyfriends or husbands. I thought about pets.”
“But why that thought? Dogs, pets. Why?”
“I don’t know why.”
Silence.
Finally she said, “I suppose seeing her tied up there ... And I was thinking how he stood to the side to watch her. Just standing between the oil tanks. It was like he was watching an animal in a pen.”
Rhyme glanced at the sine waves on the GC-MS computer screen.
Animals ...
Nitrogen ...
“Shit!” Rhyme blurted.
Heads turned toward him.
“It’s shit.” Staring at the screen.
“Yes, of course!” Cooper said, replastering his strands of hair. “All the nitrogen. It’s manure. And it’s old manure at that.”
Suddenly Lincoln Rhyme had one of those moments he’d reflected on earlier. The thought just burst into his mind. The image was of lambs.
Sellitto asked, “Lincoln, you okay?”
A lamb, sauntering down the street.
It was like he was watching an animal...
“Thom,” Sellitto was saying, “is he all right?”
...in a pen .
Rhyme could picture the carefree animal. A bell around its neck, a dozen others behind.
“Lincoln,” Thom said urgently. “You’re sweating. Are you all right?”
“Shhhhh,” the criminalist ordered.
He felt the tickle running down his face. Inspiration and heart failure; the symptoms are oddly similar. Think, think ...
Bones, wooden posts and manure ...
“Yes!” he whispered. A Judas lamb, leading the flock to slaughter. “Stockyards,” Rhyme announced to the room. “She’s being held in a stockyard.”
 “There are no stockyards in Manhattan.”
“Thepast , Lon,” Rhyme reminded him. “Old things turn him on. Get his juices flowing. We should think
ofold stockyards. The older the better.”
In researching his book, Rhyme had read about a murder that gentleman mobster Owney Madden was accused of committing: gunning down a rival bootlegger outside his Hell’s Kitchen townhouse. Madden was never convicted—not for this particular murder, at any rate. He took the stand and, in his melodious British-accented voice, lectured the courtroom about betrayal. “This entire case has been trumped up by my rivals, who are speaking lies about me. Your honor, do you know what they remind me of? In my neighborhood, in Hell’s Kitchen, the flocks of lambs were led through the streets from the stockyards to the slaughterhouses on Forty-second Street. And you know who led them? Not a dog, not a man. But one of theirs. A Judas lamb with a bell around its neck. He’d lead the flock up that ramp. But then he’d stop and the rest of them would go on inside. I’m an innocent lamb and those witnesses against me, they’re the Judases.”
Rhyme continued. “Call the library, Banks. They must have a historian.”
The young detective flipped open his cellular phone and called. His voice dropped a tone or two as he spoke. After he explained what they needed he stopped speaking and gazed at the map of the city.
“Well?” Rhyme asked.
“They’re finding someone. They’ve got—” He lowered his head as someone answered and the young man repeated his request. He started nodding and announced to the room, “I’ve got two locations ... no, three.”
“Who is it?” Rhyme barked. “Who’re you talking to?”
“The curator of the city archives. ... He says there’ve been three major stockyard areas in Manhattan. One on the West Side, around Sixtieth Street ... One in Harlem in the 1930s or ’40s. And on the Lower East Side during the Revolution.”
 “We need addresses, Banks. Addresses!”
Listening.
“He’s not sure.”
“Why can’t he look it up? Tell him to look it up!”
Banks responded, “He heard you, sir. ... He says, in what? Look them up in what? They didn’t have Yellow Pages back then. He’s looking at old—”
“Demographic maps of commercial neighborhoods without street names,” Rhyme groused. “Obviously. Have himguess .”
“That’s what he’s doing. He’s guessing.”
Rhyme called, “Well, we need him to guessfast .”
Banks listened, nodding.
“What, what, what,what?”
“Around Sixtieth Street and Tenth,” the young officer said. A moment later: “Lexington near the Harlem River ... And then ... where the Delancey farm was. Is that near Delancey Street?—”
“Ofcourse it is. From Little Italy all the way to the East River. Lots of territory.Miles . Can’t he narrow it down?”
“Around Catherine Street. Lafayette ... Walker. He’s not sure.”
“Near the courthouses,” Sellitto said and told Banks, “Get Haumann’s teams moving. Divide ’em up. Hit all three neighborhoods.”
The young detective made the call, then looked up. “What now?” “We wait,” Rhyme said.
Sellitto muttered, “I fucking hate waiting.”
Sachs asked Rhyme, “Can I use your phone?”
Rhyme nodded toward the one on his bedside table.
She hesitated. “You have one in there?” She pointed to the hallway. Rhyme nodded.
With perfect posture she walked out of the bedroom. In the hallway mirror he could see her, solemn, making the precious phone call. Who? he wondered. Boyfriend, husband? Day-care center? Why had she hesitated before mentioning her “friend” when she told them about the collie? There was a story behind that, Rhyme bet.
Whomever she was calling wasn’t there. He noticed her eyes turn to dark-blue pebbles when there was no answer. She looked up and caught Rhyme gazing at her in the dusty glass. She turned her back. The phone slipped to the cradle and she returned to his room.
There was silence for a full five minutes. Rhyme lacked the mechanism most people have for bleeding off tension. He’d been a manic pacer when he was mobile, drove the officers in IRD crazy. Now, his eyes energetically scanned the Randel map of the city as Sachs dug beneath her Patrol cap and scratched at her scalp. Invisible Mel Cooper cataloged evidence, calm as a surgeon.
All but one of the people in the room jumped inordinately when Sellitto’s phone brayed. He listened; his face broke into a grin.
“Got it!” One of Haumann’s squads is at Eleventh and Sixtieth. They can hear a woman’s screams coming from somewhere around there. They dunno where for sure. They’re doing a door-to-door.”
“Get your running shoes on,” Rhyme ordered Sachs.
He saw her face sag. She glanced at Rhyme’s phone, as if it might be ringing with a reprieve call from the governor at any minute. Then a look at Sellitto, who was poring over the ESU tactical map of the West Side.
“Amelia,” Rhyme said, “we lost one. That’s too bad. But we don’t have to lose any more.”
“If you saw her,” she whispered. “If you only saw what he did to her—”
“Oh, but I have, Amelia,” he said evenly, his eyes relentless and challenging. “I’ve seen what happened to T.J. I’ve seen what happens to bodies left in hot trunks for a month. I’ve seen what a pound of C4 does to arms and legs and faces. I worked the Happy Land social club fire. Over eighty people burned to death. We took Polaroids of the vics’ faces, or what was left of them, for their families to identify—because there’s no way in hell a human being could walk past those rows of bodies and stay sane. Except us. We didn’t have any choice.” He inhaled against the excruciating pain that swept through his neck. “See, if you’re going to get by in this business, Amelia ... If you’re going to get by inlife , you’re going to have to learn to give up the dead.”
One by one the others in the room had stopped what they were doing and were looking at the two of them.
No pleasantries now from Amelia Sachs. No polite smiles. She tried for a moment to make her gaze cryptic. But it was transparent as glass. Her fury at him—out of proportion to his comment—roiled through her; her long face folded under the dark energy. She swept aside a lock of lazy red hair and snatched the headset from the table. At the top of the stairs she paused and looked at him with a withering glance, reminding Rhyme that there was nothing colder than a beautiful woman’s cold smile.
And for some reason he found himself thinking: Welcome back, Amelia.
“Whatcha got? You got goodies, you got a story, you got pictures?”
The Scruff sat in a bar on the East Side of Manhattan, Third Avenue—which is to the city what strip
malls are to the ’burbs. This was a dingy tavern, soon to be rockin’ with Yuppies on the make. But now it was the refuge of badly dressed locals, eating suppers of questionable fish and limp salads.
The lean man, skin like knotty ebony, wore a very white shirt and a very green suit. He leaned closer to the Scruff. “You got news, you got secret codes, you got letters? You got shit?”
“Man. Ha.”
“You’re not laughing when you say ha,” said Fred Dellray, really D’Ellret but that had been generations ago. He was six foot four, rarely smiled despite the Jabberwocky banter, and was a star special agent in the Manhattan office of the FBI.
“No, man. I’m not laughing.”
“So what’ve yougot?” Dellray squeezed the end of a cigarette, which perched over his left ear.
“It takes time, man.” The Scruff, a short man, scratched his greasy hair.
“But you ain’t got time. Time is precious, time is fleeing, and time is one thing you. Ain’t. Got.”
Dellray put his huge hand under the table, on which sat two coffees, and squeezed the Scruff’s thigh until he whined.
Six months ago the skinny little guy had been caught trying to sell automatic M-16s to a couple of right-wing crazies, who—whether they actually were or not—also happened to be undercover BATF agents.
The feds hadn’t wanted the Scruff himself of course, the greasy little wild-eyedthing . They wanted whoever was supplying the guns. ATF swam upstream a ways but no great busts were forthcoming and so they gave him to Dellray, the Bureau’s Numero Uno snitch handler, to see if he might be some use. So far, though, he’d proved to be just an irritating, mousy little skel who didn’t, apparently, have news, secret codes or even shit for the feds.
“The only way we’re dropping down a charge, any charge, is you give us something beautiful and sticky. Are we all together on that?”
“I don’t have nothing for youse guys rightnow is what I’m saying. Justnow .”
“Not true, not true. You gotchaself somethin’. I can see it in your face. You’re knowing something,
mon.”
A bus pulled up outside, with a hiss of brake air. A crowd of Pakistanis climbed from the open door.
“Man, that fucking UN conference,” the Scruff muttered, “what the fuck they coming here for? This city’s too crowded already. All them foreigners.”
“ ‘Fucking conference.’ You little skel, you little turd,” Dellray snapped. “Whatcha got against world peace?”
“Nothin’.”
 “Now, tell me something good.”
“I don’t know nothin’ good.”
“Who you talking to here?” Dellray grinning devilishly. “I’m the Chameleon. I can smile’n be happy or I can frown and play squeezie.”
“No, man, no,” the Scruff squealed. “Shit, that hurts. Cut it out.”
The bartender looked over at them and a short glance from Dellray sent him back to polishing polished glasses.
“All right, maybe I know one thing. But I need help. I need—” “Squeezie time again.”
“Fuck you, man. Just fuck you!”
“Oh, that’s mighty smart dialogue,” Dellray shot back. “You sound like in those bad movies, you know, the bad guy and the good guy finally meet. Like Stallone and somebody. And all they can say to each other is, ‘Fuck you, man.’ ‘No, fuck you.’ ‘No, fuckyou .’ Now, you’re gonna tell me something useful. Are we all together on that?”
And just stared at the Scruff until he gave up.
“Okay, here’s what it is. I’m trusting you, man. I’m”
“Yeah, yeah, yeah. Whatcha got?”