Good night,
Judy
PS. You should hear the frogs sing and the little pigs squeal and you
should see the new moon! I saw it over my right shoulder.
LOCK WILLOW,
12th July 
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
How did your secretary come to know about Lock Willow? (That isn't a
rhetorical question. I am awfully curious to know.) For listen to
this: Mr. Jervis Pendleton used to own this farm, but now he has given
it to Mrs. Semple who was his old nurse. Did you ever hear of such a
funny coincidence? She still calls him 'Master Jervie' and talks about
what a sweet little boy he used to be. She has one of his baby curls
put away in a box, and it is red--or at least reddish!
Since she discovered that I know him, I have risen very much in her
opinion. Knowing a member of the Pendleton family is the best
introduction one can have at Lock Willow. And the cream of the whole
family is Master Jervis--I am pleased to say that Julia belongs to an
inferior branch.
The farm gets more and more entertaining. I rode on a hay wagon
yesterday. We have three big pigs and nine little piglets, and you
should see them eat. They are pigs! We've oceans of little baby
chickens and ducks and turkeys and guinea fowls. You must be mad to
live in a city when you might live on a farm.
It is my daily business to hunt the eggs. I fell off a beam in the
barn loft yesterday, while I was trying to crawl over to a nest that
the black hen has stolen. And when I came in with a scratched knee,
Mrs. Semple bound it up with witch-hazel, murmuring all the time,
'Dear! Dear! It seems only yesterday that Master Jervie fell off that
very same beam and scratched this very same knee.' The scenery around here is perfectly beautiful. There's a valley and a
river and a lot of wooded hills, and way in the distance a tall blue
mountain that simply melts in your mouth.
We churn twice a week; and we keep the cream in the spring house which
is made of stone with the brook running underneath. Some of the
farmers around here have a separator, but we don't care for these
new-fashioned ideas. It may be a little harder to separate the cream
in pans, but it's sufficiently better to pay. We have six calves; and
I've chosen the names for all of them.
1. Sylvia, because she was born in the woods.
2. Lesbia, after the Lesbia in Catullus.
3. Sallie.
4. Julia--a spotted, nondescript animal.
5. Judy, after me.
6. Daddy-Long-Legs. You don't mind, do you, Daddy? He's pure Jersey
and has a sweet disposition. He looks like this--you can see how
appropriate the name is.
I haven't had time yet to begin my immortal novel; the farm keeps me
too busy.
Yours always,
Judy
PS. I've learned to make doughnuts.
PS. (2) If you are thinking of raising chickens, let me recommend Buff
Orpingtons. They haven't any pin feathers.
PS. (3) I wish I could send you a pat of the nice, fresh butter I
churned yesterday. I'm a fine dairy-maid!
PS. (4) This is a picture of Miss Jerusha Abbott, the future great
author, driving home the cows.
Sunday Dear Daddy-Long-Legs, Isn't it funny? I started to write to you yesterday afternoon, but as
far as I got was the heading, 'Dear Daddy-Long-Legs', and then I
remembered I'd promised to pick some blackberries for supper, so I went
off and left the sheet lying on the table, and when I came back today,
what do you think I found sitting in the middle of the page? A real
true Daddy-Long-Legs!
I picked him up very gently by one leg, and dropped him out of the
window. I wouldn't hurt one of them for the world. They always remind
me of you.
We hitched up the spring wagon this morning and drove to the Centre to
church. It's a sweet little white frame church with a spire and three
Doric columns in front (or maybe Ionic--I always get them mixed).
A nice sleepy sermon with everybody drowsily waving palm-leaf fans, and
the only sound, aside from the minister, the buzzing of locusts in the
trees outside. I didn't wake up till I found myself on my feet singing
the hymn, and then I was awfully sorry I hadn't listened to the sermon;
I should like to know more of the psychology of a man who would pick
out such a hymn. This was it: Come, leave your sports and earthly toys
And join me in celestial joys.
Or else, dear friend, a long farewell.
I leave you now to sink to hell.
I find that it isn't safe to discuss religion with the Semples. Their
God (whom they have inherited intact from their remote Puritan
ancestors) is a narrow, irrational, unjust, mean, revengeful, bigoted
Person. Thank heaven I don't inherit God from anybody! I am free to
make mine up as I wish Him. He's kind and sympathetic and imaginative
and forgiving and understanding--and He has a sense of humour.
I like the Semples immensely; their practice is so superior to their
theory. They are better than their own God. I told them so--and they
are horribly troubled. They think I am blasphemous--and I think they
are! We've dropped theology from our conversation.
This is Sunday afternoon.
Amasai (hired man) in a purple tie and some bright yellow buckskin
gloves, very red and shaved, has just driven off with Carrie (hired
girl) in a big hat trimmed with red roses and a blue muslin dress and
her hair curled as tight as it will curl. Amasai spent all the morning
washing the buggy; and Carrie stayed home from church ostensibly to
cook the dinner, but really to iron the muslin dress.
In two minutes more when this letter is finished I am going to settle
down to a book which I found in the attic. It's entitled, On the
Trail, and sprawled across the front page in a funny little-boy hand: J
Jervis Pendleton
if this book should ever roam,
Box its ears and send it home.
He spent the summer here once after he had been ill, when he was about
eleven years old; and he left On the Trail behind. It looks well
read--the marks of his grimy little hands are frequent! Also in a
corner of the attic there is a water wheel and a windmill and some bows
and arrows. Mrs. Semple talks so constantly about him that I begin to
believe he really lives--not a grown man with a silk hat and walking
stick, but a nice, dirty, tousle-headed boy who clatters up the stairs
with an awful racket, and leaves the screen doors open, and is always
asking for cookies. (And getting them, too, if I know Mrs. Semple!) He
seems to have been an adventurous little soul--and brave and truthful.
I'm sorry to think he is a Pendleton; he was meant for something better.
We're going to begin threshing oats tomorrow; a steam engine is coming
and three extra men.
It grieves me to tell you that Buttercup (the spotted cow with one
horn, Mother of Lesbia) has done a disgraceful thing. She got into the
orchard Friday evening and ate apples under the trees, and ate and ate
until they went to her head. For two days she has been perfectly dead
drunk! That is the truth I am telling. Did you ever hear anything so
scandalous?
Sir,
I remain,
Your affectionate orphan,
Judy Abbott
PS. Indians in the first chapter and highwaymen in the second. I hold
my breath. What can the third contain? 'Red Hawk leapt twenty feet in
the air and bit the dust.' That is the subject of the frontispiece.
Aren't Judy and Jervie having fun?
15th September 
Dear Daddy,
I was weighed yesterday on the flour scales in the general store at the
Comers. I've gained nine pounds! Let me recommend Lock Willow as a
health resort.
Yours ever,
Judy
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Behold me--a Sophomore! I came up last Friday, sorry to leave Lock
Willow, but glad to see the campus again. It is a pleasant sensation
to come back to something familiar. I am beginning to feel at home in
college, and in command of the situation; I am beginning, in fact, to
feel at home in the world--as though I really belonged to it and had
not just crept in on sufferance.
I don't suppose you understand in the least what I am trying to say. A
person important enough to be a Trustee can't appreciate the feelings
of a person unimportant enough to be a foundling.
And now, Daddy, listen to this. Whom do you think I am rooming with?
Sallie McBride and Julia Rutledge Pendleton. It's the truth. We have
a study and three little bedrooms--VOILA!
Sallie and I decided last spring that we should like to room together,
and Julia made up her mind to stay with Sallie--why, I can't imagine,
for they are not a bit alike; but the Pendletons are naturally
conservative and inimical (fine word!) to change. Anyway, here we are.
Think of Jerusha Abbott, late of the John Grier Home for Orphans,
rooming with a Pendleton. This is a democratic country.
Sallie is running for class president, and unless all signs fail, she
is going to be elected. Such an atmosphere of intrigue you should see
what politicians we are! Oh, I tell you, Daddy, when we women get our
rights, you men will have to look alive in order to keep yours.
Election comes next Saturday, and we're going to have a torchlight
procession in the evening, no matter who wins.
I am beginning chemistry, a most unusual study. I've never seen
anything like it before. Molecules and Atoms are the material
employed, but I'll be in a position to discuss them more definitely
next month.
I am also taking argumentation and logic.
Also history of the whole world.
Also plays of William Shakespeare.
Also French.
If this keeps up many years longer, I shall become quite intelligent.
I should rather have elected economics than French, but I didn't dare,
because I was afraid that unless I re-elected French, the Professor
would not let me pass--as it was, I just managed to squeeze through the
June examination. But I will say that my high-school preparation was
not very adequate.
There's one girl in the class who chatters away in French as fast as
she does in English. She went abroad with her parents when she was a
child, and spent three years in a convent school. You can imagine how
bright she is compared with the rest of us--irregular verbs are mere
playthings. I wish my parents had chucked me into a French convent
when I was little instead of a foundling asylum. Oh no, I don't
either! Because then maybe I should never have known you. I'd rather
know you than French.
Goodbye, Daddy. I must call on Harriet Martin now, and, having
discussed the chemical situation, casually drop a few thoughts on the
subject of our next president.
Yours in politics,
J. Abbott
17th October 
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Supposing the swimming tank in the gymnasium were filled full of lemon
jelly, could a person trying to swim manage to keep on top or would he
sink?
We were having lemon jelly for dessert when the question came up. We
discussed it heatedly for half an hour and it's still unsettled.
Sallie thinks that she could swim in it, but I am perfectly sure that
the best swimmer in the world would sink. Wouldn't it be funny to be
drowned in lemon jelly?
Two other problems are engaging the attention of our table.
1st. What shape are the rooms in an octagon house? Some of the girls
insist that they're square; but I think they'd have to be shaped like a
piece of pie. Don't you?
2nd. Suppose there were a great big hollow sphere made of
looking-glass and you were sitting inside. Where would it stop
reflecting your face and begin reflecting your back? The more one
thinks about this problem, the more puzzling it becomes. You can see
with what deep philosophical reflection we engage our leisure!
Did I ever tell you about the election? It happened three weeks ago,
but so fast do we live, that three weeks is ancient history. Sallie
was elected, and we had a torchlight parade with transparencies saying,
'McBride for Ever,' and a band consisting of fourteen pieces (three
mouth organs and eleven combs).
We're very important persons now in '258.' Julia and I come in for a
great deal of reflected glory. It's quite a social strain to be living
in the same house with a president.
Bonne nuit, cher Daddy.
Acceptez mez compliments,
Tres respectueux,
je suis,
Votre Judy
12th November 
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
We beat the Freshmen at basket ball yesterday. Of course we're
pleased--but oh, if we could only beat the juniors! I'd be willing to
be black and blue all over and stay in bed a week in a witch-hazel
compress.
Sallie has invited me to spend the Christmas vacation with her. She
lives in Worcester, Massachusetts. Wasn't it nice of her? I shall
love to go. I've never been in a private family in my life, except at
Lock Willow, and the Semples were grown-up and old and don't count.
But the McBrides have a houseful of children (anyway two or three) and
a mother and father and grandmother, and an Angora cat. It's a
perfectly complete family! Packing your trunk and going away is more
fun than staying behind. I am terribly excited at the prospect.
Seventh hour--I must run to rehearsal. I'm to be in the Thanksgiving
theatricals. A prince in a tower with a velvet tunic and yellow curls.
Isn't that a lark?
Yours,
J. A.
Saturday. 
Do you want to know what I look like? Here's a photograph of all three
that Leonora Fenton took.
The light one who is laughing is Sallie, and the tall one with her nose
in the air is Julia, and the little one with the hair blowing across
her face is Judy--she is really more beautiful than that, but the sun
was in her eyes.
'STONE GATE',
WORCESTER, MASS.,
31st December 
|Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I meant to write to you before and thank you for your Christmas cheque,
but life in the McBride household is very absorbing, and I don't seem
able to find two consecutive minutes to spend at a desk.
I bought a new gown--one that I didn't need, but just wanted. My
Christmas present this year is from Daddy-Long-Legs; my family just
sent love.
I've been having the most beautiful vacation visiting Sallie. She
lives in a big old-fashioned brick house with white trimmings set back
from the street--exactly the kind of house that I used to look at so
curiously when I was in the John Grier Home, and wonder what it could
be like inside. I never expected to see with my own eyes--but here I
am! Everything is so comfortable and restful and homelike; I walk from
room to room and drink in the furnishings.
It is the most perfect house for children to be brought up in; with
shadowy nooks for hide and seek, and open fire places for pop-corn, and
an attic to romp in on rainy days and slippery banisters with a
comfortable flat knob at the bottom, and a great big sunny kitchen, and
a nice, fat, sunny cook who has lived in the family thirteen years and
always saves out a piece of dough for the children to bake. Just the
sight of such a house makes you want to be a child all over again.
And as for families! I never dreamed they could be so nice. Sallie
has a father and mother and grandmother, and the sweetest
three-year-old baby sister all over curls, and a medium-sized brother
who always forgets to wipe his feet, and a big, good-looking brother
named Jimmie, who is a junior at Princeton.
We have the jolliest times at the table--everybody laughs and jokes and
talks at once, and we don't have to say grace beforehand. It's a
relief not having to thank Somebody for every mouthful you eat. (I
dare say I'm blasphemous; but you'd be, too, if you'd offered as much
obligatory thanks as I have.) Such a lot of things we've done--I can't begin to tell you about them.
Mr. McBride owns a factory and Christmas eve he had a tree for the
employees' children. It was in the long packing-room which was
decorated with evergreens and holly. Jimmie McBride was dressed as
Santa Claus and Sallie and I helped him distribute the presents.
Dear me, Daddy, but it was a funny sensation! I felt as benevolent as
a Trustee of the John Grier home. I kissed one sweet, sticky little
boy--but I don't think I patted any of them on the head!
And two days after Christmas, they gave a dance at their own house for
ME.
It was the first really true ball I ever attended--college doesn't
count where we dance with girls. I had a new white evening gown (your
Christmas present--many thanks) and long white gloves and white satin
slippers. The only drawback to my perfect, utter, absolute happiness
was the fact that Mrs. Lippett couldn't see me leading the cotillion
with Jimmie McBride. Tell her about it, please, the next time you
visit the J. G. H.
Yours ever,
Judy Abbott
PS. Would you be terribly displeased, Daddy, if I didn't turn out to
be a Great Author after all, but just a Plain Girl?
6.30, Saturday
Dear Daddy, We started to walk to town today, but mercy! how it poured. I like
winter to be winter with snow instead of rain.
Julia's desirable uncle called again this afternoon--and brought a
five-pound box of chocolates. There are advantages, you see, about
rooming with Julia.
Our innocent prattle appeared to amuse him and he waited for a later
train in order to take tea in the study. We had an awful lot of
trouble getting permission. It's hard enough entertaining fathers and
grandfathers, but uncles are a step worse; and as for brothers and
cousins, they are next to impossible. Julia had to swear that he was
her uncle before a notary public and then have the county clerk's
certificate attached. (Don't I know a lot of law?) And even then I
doubt if we could have had our tea if the Dean had chanced to see how
youngish and good-looking Uncle Jervis is.
Anyway, we had it, with brown bread Swiss cheese sandwiches. He helped
make them and then ate four. I told him that I had spent last summer
at Lock Willow, and we had a beautiful gossipy time about the Semples,
and the horses and cows and chickens. All the horses that he used to
know are dead, except Grover, who was a baby colt at the time of his
last visit--and poor Grove now is so old he can just limp about the
pasture.
He asked if they still kept doughnuts in a yellow crock with a blue
plate over it on the bottom shelf of the pantry--and they do! He
wanted to know if there was still a woodchuck's hole under the pile of
rocks in the night pasture--and there is! Amasai caught a big, fat,
grey one there this summer, the twenty-fifth great-grandson of the one
Master Jervis caught when he was a little boy.
I called him 'Master Jervie' to his face, but he didn't appear to be
insulted. Julia says she has never seen him so amiable; he's usually
pretty unapproachable. But Julia hasn't a bit of tact; and men, I
find, require a great deal. They purr if you rub them the right way
and spit if you don't. (That isn't a very elegant metaphor. I mean it
figuratively.) We're reading Marie Bashkirtseff's journal. Isn't it amazing? Listen
to this: 'Last night I was seized by a fit of despair that found
utterance in moans, and that finally drove me to throw the dining-room
clock into the sea.' It makes me almost hope I'm not a genius; they must be very wearing to
have about--and awfully destructive to the furniture.
Mercy! how it keeps Pouring. We shall have to swim to chapel tonight.
Yours ever,
Judy
20th Jan.
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Did you ever have a sweet baby girl who was stolen from the cradle in
infancy?
Maybe I am she! If we were in a novel, that would be the denouement,
wouldn't it?
It's really awfully queer not to know what one is--sort of exciting and
romantic. There are such a lot of possibilities. Maybe I'm not
American; lots of people aren't. I may be straight descended from the
ancient Romans, or I may be a Viking's daughter, or I may be the child
of a Russian exile and belong by rights in a Siberian prison, or maybe
I'm a Gipsy--I think perhaps I am. I have a very WANDERING spirit,
though I haven't as yet had much chance to develop it.
Do you know about that one scandalous blot in my career the time I ran
away from the asylum because they punished me for stealing cookies?
It's down in the books free for any Trustee to read. But really,
Daddy, what could you expect? When you put a hungry little nine-year
girl in the pantry scouring knives, with the cookie jar at her elbow,
and go off and leave her alone; and then suddenly pop in again,
wouldn't you expect to find her a bit crumby? And then when you jerk
her by the elbow and box her ears, and make her leave the table when
the pudding comes, and tell all the other children that it's because
she's a thief, wouldn't you expect her to run away?
I only ran four miles. They caught me and brought me back; and every
day for a week I was tied, like a naughty puppy, to a stake in the back
yard while the other children were out at recess.
Oh, dear! There's the chapel bell, and after chapel I have a committee
meeting. I'm sorry because I meant to write you a very entertaining
letter this time.
Auf wiedersehen
Cher Daddy,
Pax tibi!
Judy
PS. There's one thing I'm perfectly sure of I'm not a Chinaman.
4th February 
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Jimmie McBride has sent me a Princeton banner as big as one end of the
room; I am very grateful to him for remembering me, but I don't know
what on earth to do with it. Sallie and Julia won't let me hang it up;
our room this year is furnished in red, and you can imagine what an
effect we'd have if I added orange and black. But it's such nice,
warm, thick felt, I hate to waste it. Would it be very improper to
have it made into a bath robe? My old one shrank when it was washed.
I've entirely omitted of late telling you what I am learning, but
though you might not imagine it from my letters, my time is exclusively
occupied with study. It's a very bewildering matter to get educated in
five branches at once.
'The test of true scholarship,' says Chemistry Professor, 'is a
painstaking passion for detail.'
'Be careful not to keep your eyes glued to detail,' says History
Professor. 'Stand far enough away to get a perspective of the whole.'
You can see with what nicety we have to trim our sails between
chemistry and history. I like the historical method best. If I say
that William the Conqueror came over in 1492, and Columbus discovered
America in 1100 or 1066 or whenever it was, that's a mere detail that
the Professor overlooks. It gives a feeling of security and
restfulness to the history recitation, that is entirely lacking in
chemistry.
Sixth-hour bell--I must go to the laboratory and look into a little
matter of acids and salts and alkalis. I've burned a hole as big as a
plate in the front of my chemistry apron, with hydrochloric acid. If
the theory worked, I ought to be able to neutralize that hole with good
strong ammonia, oughtn't I?
Examinations next week, but who's afraid?
Yours ever,
Judy
5th March 
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
There is a March wind blowing, and the sky is filled with heavy, black
moving clouds. The crows in the pine trees are making such a clamour!
It's an intoxicating, exhilarating, CALLING noise. You want to close
your books and be off over the hills to race with the wind.
We had a paper chase last Saturday over five miles of squashy 'cross
country. The fox (composed of three girls and a bushel or so of
confetti) started half an hour before the twenty-seven hunters. I was
one of the twenty-seven; eight dropped by the wayside; we ended
nineteen. The trail led over a hill, through a cornfield, and into a
swamp where we had to leap lightly from hummock to hummock. of course
half of us went in ankle deep. We kept losing the trail, and we wasted
twenty-five minutes over that swamp. Then up a hill through some woods
and in at a barn window! The barn doors were all locked and the window
was up high and pretty small. I don't call that fair, do you?
But we didn't go through; we circumnavigated the barn and picked up the
trail where it issued by way of a low shed roof on to the top of a
fence. The fox thought he had us there, but we fooled him. Then
straight away over two miles of rolling meadow, and awfully hard to
follow, for the confetti was getting sparse. The rule is that it must
be at the most six feet apart, but they were the longest six feet I
ever saw. Finally, after two hours of steady trotting, we tracked
Monsieur Fox into the kitchen of Crystal Spring (that's a farm where
the girls go in bob sleighs and hay wagons for chicken and waffle
suppers) and we found the three foxes placidly eating milk and honey
and biscuits. They hadn't thought we would get that far; they were
expecting us to stick in the barn window.
Both sides insist that they won. I think we did, don't you? Because
we caught them before they got back to the campus. Anyway, all
nineteen of us settled like locusts over the furniture and clamoured
for honey. There wasn't enough to go round, but Mrs. Crystal Spring
(that's our pet name for her; she's by rights a Johnson) brought up a
jar of strawberry jam and a can of maple syrup--just made last
week--and three loaves of brown bread.
We didn't get back to college till half-past six--half an hour late for
dinner--and we went straight in without dressing, and with perfectly
unimpaired appetites! Then we all cut evening chapel, the state of our
boots being enough of an excuse.
I never told you about examinations. I passed everything with the
utmost ease--I know the secret now, and am never going to fail again.
I shan't be able to graduate with honours though, because of that
beastly Latin prose and geometry Freshman year. But I don't care.
Wot's the hodds so long as you're 'appy? (That's a quotation. I've
been reading the English classics.)
Speaking of classics, have you ever read Hamlet? If you haven't, do it
right off. It's PERFECTLY CORKING. I've been hearing about
Shakespeare all my life, but I had no idea he really wrote so well; I
always suspected him of going largely on his reputation.
I have a beautiful play that I invented a long time ago when I first
learned to read. I put myself to sleep every night by pretending I'm
the person (the most important person) in the book I'm reading at the
moment.
At present I'm Ophelia--and such a sensible Ophelia! I keep Hamlet
amused all the time, and pet him and scold him and make him wrap up his
throat when he has a cold. I've entirely cured him of being
melancholy. The King and Queen are both dead--an accident at sea; no
funeral necessary--so Hamlet and I are ruling in Denmark without any
bother. We have the kingdom working beautifully. He takes care of the
governing, and I look after the charities. I have just founded some
first-class orphan asylums. If you or any of the other Trustees would
like to visit them, I shall be pleased to show you through. I think
you might find a great many helpful suggestions.
I remain, sir,
Yours most graciously,
OPHELIA,
Queen of Denmark.
24th March,
maybe the 25th 
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I don't believe I can be going to Heaven--I am getting such a lot of
good things here; it wouldn't be fair to get them hereafter too.
Listen to what has happened.
Jerusha Abbott has won the short-story contest (a twenty-five dollar
prize) that the Monthly holds every year. And she's a Sophomore! The
contestants are mostly Seniors. When I saw my name posted, I couldn't
quite believe it was true. Maybe I am going to be an author after all.
I wish Mrs. Lippett hadn't given me such a silly name--it sounds like
an author-ess, doesn't it?
Also I have been chosen for the spring dramatics--As You Like It out of
doors. I am going to be Celia, own cousin to Rosalind.
And lastly: Julia and Sallie and I are going to New York next Friday
to do some spring shopping and stay all night and go to the theatre the
next day with 'Master Jervie.' He invited us. Julia is going to stay
at home with her family, but Sallie and I are going to stop at the
Martha Washington Hotel. Did you ever hear of anything so exciting?
I've never been in a hotel in my life, nor in a theatre; except once
when the Catholic Church had a festival and invited the orphans, but
that wasn't a real play and it doesn't count.
And what do you think we're going to see? Hamlet. Think of that! We
studied it for four weeks in Shakespeare class and I know it by heart.
I am so excited over all these prospects that I can scarcely sleep.
Goodbye, Daddy.
This is a very entertaining world.
Yours ever,
Judy
PS. I've just looked at the calendar. It's the 28th.
Another postscript.
I saw a street car conductor today with one brown eye and one blue.
Wouldn't he make a nice villain for a detective story?
7th April 
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Mercy! Isn't New York big? Worcester is nothing to it. Do you mean
to tell me that you actually live in all that confusion? I don't
believe that I shall recover for months from the bewildering effect of
two days of it. I can't begin to tell you all the amazing things I've
seen; I suppose you know, though, since you live there yourself.
But aren't the streets entertaining? And the people? And the shops?
I never saw such lovely things as there are in the windows. It makes
you want to devote your life to wearing clothes.
Sallie and Julia and I went shopping together Saturday morning. Julia
went into the very most gorgeous place I ever saw, white and gold walls
and blue carpets and blue silk curtains and gilt chairs. A perfectly
beautiful lady with yellow hair and a long black silk trailing gown
came to meet us with a welcoming smile. I thought we were paying a
social call, and started to shake hands, but it seems we were only
buying hats--at least Julia was. She sat down in front of a mirror and
tried on a dozen, each lovelier than the last, and bought the two
loveliest of all