I fling a glance over my shoulder. Tad is standing there, smiling at me shyly. Talk about bad
timing.
“I’ll call you,” Dad says to me, actually making a phone symbol out of his thumb and pinky,
and holding it to his face. Geez. When did he get so Hollywood? To Tad, he says, “Later,
dude.”
Okay, maybe it won’t be so bad having Dad move out.
“How are you?” Tad asks, stroking my arm.
“I’m fine,” I say. I’m staring after my dad so intently, I can’t help wondering if he can feel
my eyes boring holes in his back. What did Cooper say? Why won’t he tell me? Why are all
the men in my life conspiring against me? This isn’t fair!
“I’ve been trying to get ahold of you,” Tad says. “But you haven’t been returning any of my
messages.”
“Yeah,” I say, noticing, as my dad sweeps out, that Cooper, though he and Tom have been
joined by Tom’s boyfriend Steve, and seem to be involved in some kind of conversation—no
doubt about college basketball—has given up subtlety, and now is openly staring at me. “I’ve
been swamped. The strike, and everything.”
“Well, things’ll get better. And I hear Tom’s been made interim hall director. So that’s good
news.”
“Yeah,” I say. Did Cooper tell my dad he had to call first before coming over? And if so,
why? Why couldn’t he just drop by? What was Cooper so afraid of my dad walking in on,
anyway?
“Heather, are you okay?” Tad wants to know.
I shake myself. What am I doing? What’s wrong with me? The men in my life aren’t
conspiring against me.
No one is conspiring against me. I have got to calm down. I have got to get a grip.
“Fine,” I say, smiling up at Tad. “I’m fine. I’m sorry I’ve been so wacky lately. I’ve
just…you know.”
  
Tad nods understandingly. In the reflective blue light from the pool, his blond hair has a
slightly green tinge.
“You’ve been through a lot this week,” he says. “I get it. Believe me. What happened to
Owen…”
“I know,” I say, slipping my hand in his.
“…and then for it to turn out to have been a student. I mean, I still can’t believe it.”
I don’t drop his hand. But I think about it. Especially when I almost catch Cooper looking
over this way again. I think.
“Sebastian didn’t do it, Tad,” I say, as nicely as I can.
“Well, of course he did it, Heather,” Tad says. “They found the murder weapon in his purse.”
“Murse,” I correct him. “And just because they found the murder weapon on him doesn’t
mean he did it.”
“Well,” Tad says. “No offense, but it’s sort of illogical to suppose it was someone else. The
Blumenthal kid had the motive, and the means, and they found the weapon on him, so—”
“Yes,” I say. Now I really do drop his hand. “But it’s still possible he didn’t do it. I mean,
you have to admit that much.”
“Well, sure,” Tad says. “Anything’s possible. But, statistically speaking, it’s not very
probable—”
“Sebastian Blumenthal,” I say, “could very well have been framed. Did you ever think of
that?”
Tad blinks down at me, his gorgeous blue eyes hidden behind the thick lenses of his gold-
rimmed glasses. I used to think this was a good thing. You know, that no one could see how
beautiful his eyes were but me.
But now I wonder if it’s such a good thing after all. Because what if those lenses have
actually been keeping me from seeing something I should have seen before? Something vital
about Tad? Not how hot he is, either, but that, nice as he is and all, Tad is a little bit of a tool?
“Heather,” he says. “That makes no sense whatsoever. Who would do something like that?
Who would go to all that trouble?”
“Um,” I say. “How about the real killer? Just for instance? Do you not watch Law & Order,
Tad? Have you never even seen an episode of Murder, She Wrote?” Frustrated, I brush a
stray strand of hair from my eyes. It’s almost as if I’m brushing away a veil that’s been there
for months, and seeing Tad clearly for the first time. “Tad, you have a Scooby Doo lunch box
in your office. Have you ever even watched Scooby Doo?”
  
“A student gave that to me,” Tad says. “What’s the matter with you, Heather? You know I
don’t believe in television. Why are you acting this way?”
“How can you not believe in television?” I demand. “How can you not believe in something
that never did anyone any harm? Sure, in large doses television may be bad for you. But so is
anything. Chocolate, for instance. Sex, even!”
Tad is still blinking down at me. “Heather,” he says. “I think maybe you need to go home and
lie down and have some herbal tea or something. Because you seem a little overwrought.”
I know he’s right. He’s one hundred percent right. Also, I’m not being fair.
But I can’t stop myself. It’s like a piece of me snapped up there behind that podium, and now
something is pouring out of me, a tidal wave of some vital part of me, and I can’t stop it.
Except that I’m not sure I want to. I’m not even sure it’s such a bad thing.
“What did you want to ask me, Tad?” I hear myself demand.
He looks down at me in total confusion. “What? When?”
“The other day,” I say. “You said you had something you wanted to ask me, when the timing
was right. What was it?”
Tad blushes. At least, I think so. It’s hard to tell in the light from the pool. Basically, he just
looks green.
“You think the timing is right now?” he asks. “Because I hardly—”
“Oh, just ask,” I snarl. I seriously don’t know what’s come over me. It’s like I’ve turned into
Sarah all of a sudden. Pre-makeover.
Tad looks too scared to do anything but what I say.
“Okay,” he all but whimpers. “It’s just that a bunch of us from the math department are going
to spend the summer following the Appalachian Trail—you know, hiking by day and
camping out at night—and I was just wondering if, you know, you’d be interested in coming
along. I know you’re not much of an outdoorsy girl, and of course you have work, but I
thought if you could get a leave, you might want to come. It should be a lot of fun. We plan
on living off the land, getting away from it all, no cell phones, no iPods…it should be totally
enriching. What…what do you think?”
For a minute, I can only stare up at him.
Then, slowly, I realize that whatever it is inside of me that’s broken seems to have righted
itself.
I feel whole again.
I also feel like laughing. A lot.
  
But I know this would hardly be appropriate under the circumstances—the circumstances
being both the refreshment period after Dr. Veatch’s memorial service, and the fact that my
boyfriend’s just asked me, in all seriousness, to spend the summer with him, hiking the
Appalachian Trail.
“Well, Tad,” I say, struggling to keep a straight face. “I’m totally flattered. But, you know,
I’ve only had this job a little less than a year, so I think it’d be really hard for me to get that
much time off.”
“But you could probably get a week off,” Tad says. “Maybe you could join us for a week?”
The thought of spending my one week off this summer on a dirty, sweaty, tick-infested
hiking trail, not bathing, and eating nuts and berries with a bunch of math professors almost
causes me to weep. With laughter.
But I keep it together by biting down, hard, on the insides of my cheeks.
“I don’t think so,” I say. The words come out sounding odd, on account of how hard I’m
biting myself. “Tad…I don’t think this is going to work out.”
Tad looks relieved. But also as if he’s struggling to hide it.
“Heather,” he says cautiously. “Are you…are you breaking up with me?”
“Yeah,” I say. “I’m sorry, Tad. I like you, and everything, but I think we might be better off
keeping our relationship as purely student-teacher. If Dr. Veatch’s death has taught me
anything, it’s that life is fleeting, and we’re better off not wasting time on relationships that
are pretty obviously not destined to be.”
Tad looks so relieved, I’m worried he might pass out. I brace myself, in case I have to catch
him.
“Well,” he says, still struggling to look sad. “If you really think that’s better…”
“I do,” I say. “But I still want to be friends. Okay?”
“Oh, of course,” Tad says.
Tad seems more relieved than ever.
Although his relief seems to turn to alarm when, a second later, Muffy Fowler sidles up to me
and, looking up at Tad from beneath her eyelashes, asks, “Hi, Heather. Aren’t you going to
introduce me to your friend?”
“Why, of course,” I say. “Muffy, this is Tad Tocco, my math professor. Tad, this is Muffy
Fowler. She’s the new PR liaison with the president’s office. She’s also,” I add, for
absolutely no reason other than, well, why not? “an avid outdoorswoman.”
“I am?” Muffy asks, then squeaks when I kick her on the ankle. “Ouch, I mean, oh yeah. I
am.”
  
“Uh,” Tad says, stretching his right hand toward Muffy. “Hi.”
“Hi,” Muffy says, with a twinkle. I’m totally not making that up, either. Muffy actually
manages to twinkle. “I wish my math professors had looked like you when I’d been in school.
I might have paid more attention to my fractions.”
“Uh,” Tad says, looking abashed. “What kind of outdoors activities do you enjoy?”
“All of them,” Muffy says, without skipping a beat. “Why? What are your favorites, Tad?”
Noticing that Cooper is still full-on staring at me—and also giving me come-over-here hand
motions—I say, “Could you guys excuse me for a minute? I’ll be right back.”
“Take your time,” Muffy purrs, reaching to adjust Tad’s natural hemp fiber tie, which has
gone a little askew. Tad, naturally, looks alarmed.
But also a little excited. It’s pretty obvious he can’t keep his gaze from dipping below the
kick pleat of Muffy’s pencil skirt.
Geez. Men.
“What,” I say, when I reach Cooper, who had started heading toward me the minute he saw
me disengage from Tad and Muffy.
“What was that all about?” he wants to know, jerking his head in Tad’s direction.
“None of your business,” I say. “What do you want?”
“Did he ask you to move in with him?” Cooper asks. “Or not?”
“I told you,” I say. “None of your business.” I can’t help noticing that, over in one corner,
Gavin and Jamie are making out. God. Get a room, already.
“It sort of is my business, as I believe I’ve pointed out before. But I’ll let it go for now. I did
a little digging on your guy Reverend Mark when I got home,” Cooper says. “Nice speech in
there, by the way.”
“Thank you for clapping like that,” I say, meaning it. “Really. I mean, Owen was a bit of a
stick in the mud, but nobody deserves to go that way.”
“Well, Halstead had reason to be scared,” Cooper goes on. “Maybe even reason enough to
kill. He was fired from his last job for ‘undisclosed reasons,’ and the same thing with the job
before that. You know what ‘undisclosed reasons’ means.”
“Sure,” I say bitterly. “It means that once again, the HR Department at prestigious New York
College didn’t check a potential employee’s references before hiring him. So what do we
do?”
Cooper looks over my shoulder. “I don’t know, but we better think fast, because he’s heading
this way. I think he wants to talk to you.”
  
“Oh, I know he wants to talk to me,” I say. “I PNG’d him this afternoon. He’s probably
stinking mad about it.”
“Heather,” Cooper says, taking my arm and dragging me toward him, so that suddenly his
mouth is next to my ear, his breath warm against my cheek…causing an instant reaction
down my spinal column, which seems to have turned to Jell-O. “Whatever you do…do not
leave this room with him. Do you understand? Stay where I can see you.”
All I have to do is turn my head, just a tiny bit, and those lips that are next to my ear will be
on my mouth.
I’m just saying. That’s all I’d have to do.
I don’t, of course.
But I could.
“Okay,” I say weakly.
And then he lets go of me.
19
Cashmere and suede from Milan and Paris
Coaxing me, why don’t you wear us
It’s not the cost, or that I’m mean
It’s just you don’t come in size 14
“Big-Boned Girl’s Lament”
Written by Heather Wells
Miraculously, I don’t fall to the floor. I don’t know how. But somehow, my knees support
me, and I remain upright.
What is it about Cooper Cartwright that his merest touch is capable of turning my spine to
Jell-O, and makes my knees weak? It’s just so…wrong. I mean, that he should be capable of
doing that, whereas my own boyfriend—er, now ex-boyfriend—just…couldn’t.
Mark Halstead is smiling as he comes toward me, his stride unhurried, his face relaxed.
Muffy is right. He is cuter than Jake Gyllenhaal. No wonder so many of the girls in Jamie’s
youth choir didn’t mind it when he “accidentally” felt them up.
“It’s Heather, right?” he says, when he finally reaches me. He’s taken his robe off.
Underneath, he’s wearing a navy blue sports coat and khakis. Khakis! At least they don’t
have pleats in the front.
  
I check out his shoes, then quickly look away with a shudder.
Oh yes. Loafers. With tassels.
He looks like Tinker Bell. If Tinker Bell were dark-haired. And a lot hairier.
“Yeah,” I say. I have a sudden and nearly uncontrollable urge to rush at the cookie table and
shove as many as possible into my mouth. They’re the good kind, too. Homemade (well, by
the bakers over at the student center), not store bought. There are plenty of chocolate chips
left. And even some brownies.
“Listen,” Mark says. “I know this probably isn’t the best place to bring this up, but I heard
something kind of disturbing earlier today, and I can’t help thinking there must have been
some kind of misunderstanding, and if it’s all right with you, I’d like to try to clear the air
now, if I can, so we can just move on as soon as possible…”
That’s it. I need a brownie. I turn and head for the nearest table.
“It’s not a misunderstanding,” I say, as I carefully choose a chocolate chip cookie—without
nuts—that’s nearly as big as my head. “I received a complaint about you from a resident, and
for her physical and emotional safety, until you’ve been cleared in a formal hearing by the
board of trustees, I’ve made you persona non grata in my building.”
Reverend Mark’s dark eyebrows go up—way up—in surprise. “A formal—wait. You’re
kidding me, right?”
I sink my teeth into the cookie. Delicious. That’s the thing about homemade cookies, as
opposed to the stuff you buy in stores. They’re made with real butter, none of this
hydrogenated stuff that, let’s be honest, you really don’t even know what it is.
“No,” I say. I don’t chew. I don’t have to. The cookie is melting in my mouth. “I’m really
not.”
“How can you just categorically take this girl’s word over mine?” Reverend Mark demands.
“Because,” I say. “I like her.”
“Don’t I even get a chance to defend myself?”
“Sure,” I say. “At the formal hearing.”
“But I don’t even know what I’m being accused of,” Mark bleats. “It’s not fair!”
“Oh,” I say, swallowing. “I think you know. You already spoke with—and I’m using the term
loosely. A less generous person might have said ‘threatened’—the victim, and tried to talk
her out of writing a formal complaint once. It’s just lucky for you the person she was
supposed to meet with in order to issue that complaint died suddenly.” I narrow my eyes as I
gaze up at him. “Isn’t it?”
  
But Mark doesn’t take the bait. Instead he says, looking agitated, “You don’t understand.
Jamie Price is a sweet girl, but she’s…confused. She misinterprets gestures of friendship as
sexual in nature.”
I sincerely hope he doesn’t turn around and notice that Jamie is currently off in one corner of
the room in a clench with her tongue down the throat of a certain fellow New York College
junior.
“She’s actually disturbed,” Mark goes on. “I was going to recommend her for counseling.”
“Really,” I say. The cookie, which I’ve finished, is not sitting well. Maybe I need something
else, to sort of settle my stomach. Only what? I notice that Tad and Muffy, over by the punch
bowl, are still talking. So punch is out. I also notice that Cooper is keeping an eye on me, as
he’d promised. He’s standing by the Mexican wedding cakes. Mmmm, Mexican wedding
cakes. Tender, flaky, buttery morsels…
“This is all stuff,” I tell Reverend Mark, “that you can bring up at the hearing. Although you
might want to consider looking into some counseling for yourself, too.”
“Counseling for myself?” Mark looks astonished. “Why would I want to do that?”
“Well,” I say. My gaze lands on the Mrs. Veatches, who are shaking hands with President
Allington and his wife, who appear to be leaving. President Allington is keeping a hand on
his wife’s arm…the only thing, as far as I can tell, that’s keeping her upright. “The birds,”
Mrs. Allington keeps saying, meaning her pet cockatoos, whom she often references in
moments when she’s imbibed a little too much. “The birds.”
“It’s my understanding,” I say to Reverend Mark, tearing my gaze away from Mrs.
Allington’s highly amusing antics with an effort, “that this isn’t the first school where you’ve
run into this kind of thing.”
Mark’s face changes. He goes from looking blandly handsome to darkly angry in a split
second. The next thing I know, his hand is on my arm, his fingers wrapped around me in a
grip that hurts. Well, in an annoying way, more than an actually painful kind of way.
“Ow,” I say, and look around for Cooper.
But something is happening over by the security desk. And that something is that someone no
one is expecting to come to Owen Veatch’s memorial service—or, at least, the refreshment
portion following it—has walked in.
And that someone is his suspected murderer, Sebastian Blumenthal.
To say that all hell breaks loose would be an understatement. The security guard, in the way
of campus security guards everywhere (Pete excluded, of course), lets him in, of course, and
Sebastian, with a square-jawed Sarah behind him, makes a beeline for Pam Don’t-Call-Me-
Mrs. Veatch. I have no idea how he’d known she was the bereaved not-widow…maybe
because she was standing beside the ancient mother-of-the-deceased in the receiving line.
  
In any case, every gaze in the place, including my own and Cooper’s, is drawn instantly to
the developing little drama as Pam lurches instinctively away from Sebastian’s outstretched
hand and heartfelt “Mrs. Veatch? I am so, so sorry for your loss—”
—just as Mark Halstead gives my arm a surprisingly hard yank and drags me toward a nearby
side door to the natatorium.
I suppose my yelp of alarm might have alerted those nearest me that I was in trouble…if
Pam’s shriek of outrage hadn’t drowned out everything else that was audible within a five-
mile radius (I exaggerate, but seriously, that lady has a set of lungs on her).
I don’t get to stick around to see what happens next, because one minute I’m in the atrium
with everyone else, and the next, I’m in the stairwell.
But I suspect fingernails were launched in the direction of Sebastian’s eyeballs.
Seriously, I don’t know what Sarah was thinking, letting him talk her into coming here. She
had to have known what a bad idea it was. Sure, Sebastian might have wanted to pay his
respects.
But couldn’t he have done it in some less public forum, when feelings might not have been
running quite as high?
In any case, I don’t get to see how Mrs. Veatch One and Two react to Owen’s alleged killer
showing up at his memorial service, beyond Mrs. Veatch Number Two’s shriek. That’s
because Mark has me inside that stairwell and pressed up against the cinder-block wall in the
blink of an eye, where he seems to be tr ying very hard to convince me that I ought to be
keeping the information about his previous places of employment—and subsequent
dismissals from them—to myself.
I can’t help being conscious of the fact that we are standing on the top of a very steep
stairwell and that Mark is, for his profession, remarkably strong. It’s not out of the realm of
possibility that he could throw me down those stairs, snapping my neck, then claim I fell
accidentally. Everyone would believe it. I am not known, after all, for my grace.
“Look,” Mark is saying, shaking me with the force of his grip. He has both hands on my
upper arms now. His thumbs are actually cutting off my circulation. “It wasn’t my fault about
those other girls! I’m a good-looking guy! Girls hit on me! Of course I say no, and when I do,
they get mad, and report me! It’s not me…it’s them!”
“Mark,” I say, in the calmest voice I can muster. There’s just a slim metal railing separating
us from the stairwell. The smell of chlorine is sharp in the air. It reminds me of all those
times I tried to burn calories swimming laps. Yeah. Like that worked. I came home so
ravenous, I once ate an entire loaf of Roman Meal. With nothing on it. “I don’t care about
those other girls. It’s Owen I care about.”
“Owen?” Mark’s face twists with confusion. “Who the hell is OWEN?”
“Owen Veatch,” I remind him. “The man you just gave the eulogy for.”
  
“What does he have to do with any of this?” Mark wants to know. “Christ—he didn’t say I
hit on him, too, did he? I may be a lot of things, but I’m not GAY.”
I laugh. I can’t help it.
“Right,” I say. “Good one.”
“I’m serious,” Mark says. “Heather, I know I have a problem. But I mean…a lot of girls, they
like it. Especially the ones who may not be as good-looking as the others, you know what I
mean? The homely ones…the chubby ones—it gives them a little boost of self-esteem. I
don’t mean anything by it. I really don’t. It’s just to make them feel good.”
I narrow my eyes at him.
“My God,” I say. “You really are a piece of work. You know that, don’t you? You’re
disgusting.”
“God gave me a gift, Heather,” Mark insists, his face just inches from mine. “These looks,
this personality…I’m supposed to use it to bring joy to others. I’m supposed to use it to do
His work—”
“And since when,” I demand, “has killing been the Lord’s work?”
“Killing?” Mark blinks down at me. “What are you talking about?”
“Right,” I say, very sarcastically. I’m stalling, of course. Eventually Cooper’s going to have
to figure out which door Mark dragged me through, and come busting through it. Until then, I
just have to keep him talking. Because if he’s busy talking, he won’t be busy doing other
things. Such as killing me.
“Like you didn’t shoot Owen through his office window yesterday morning,” I say, “to keep
him from ratting you out to your supervisor and the board of trustees.”
Mark blinks some more.
“What? What are you—”
“Come on, Mark,” I say. “Everyone knows you did it. Jamie knows. I know. The cops know.
You might as well give yourself up. You can plant guns on innocent people all you want, but
the truth is, you’re going to get caught eventually. It’s just a matter of time.”
Mark does something extraordinary then.
He bursts out laughing. Then he lets go of me.
“Is that what this is about?” he asks, walking to the opposite end of the stairwell, dragging a
hand through his thick dark hair. “You think…My God. You can’t be serious.”
“Oh, I assure you,” I say, keeping an eye on the door. Any second now, I’m sure, Cooper is
going to burst through it. I’d make a run for it, but I’m certain Halstead will stop me before I
  
get even one step toward it. Stop me, then toss me over the railing and to my death. “I’m
serious as a heart attack.”
“How could I have killed your boss?” Mark demands. “They already caught the guy who did
it!”
“You shot him,” I say, “and planted the gun on Sebastian.”
“Oh, right,” Mark says, very sarcastically…I mean, for a preacher. “And what time was your
boss shot again?”
“Between eight and eight-thirty yesterday morning,” I say.
“Right,” Mark says. “You mean while I was holding daily morning prayer service, which I do
every day between seven-thirty and eight-thirty, in front of no fewer than twenty to thirty
students? Would you like to explain how I snuck out in front of all of them, shot your boss,
snuck back, and continued prayer service without any of them noticing I was gone?”
I swallow. No wonder Detective Canavan had been in no hurry to rush out and arrest the
reverend. It hadn’t been because he already had a suspect in custody.
It had been because Reverend Mark had a rock-solid alibi.
“Oh,” I say.
Dang. And I’d really wanted him to turn out to be the killer, too.
“You know,” Mark says in an irritated voice, “I am getting so tired of people assuming that,
just because there’ve been a few religious leaders who’ve turned out to be less than honest,
all men of the cloth must be inherently dishonest. Apparently we’re all either child molesters,
adulterers, or cold-blooded killers.”
“Well,” I say. “I’m sorry. But you did just admit that you hit on homely and overweight girls
to improve their self-esteem. That’s totally skeevy, especially considering you’re in a position
of power over them, and they’re probably too intimidated to tell you to cut it out if they don’t
like it.”
Mark makes a bleating noise of protest. “It’s not skeevy!” he says. “It’s actually very—”
But he doesn’t get a chance to explain to me what it’s actually very. Because at that moment,
the stairwell door explodes open, and a dark-haired blur bursts through it.
“Heather,” Cooper demands, seeing me with my back still up against the cinder block. His
eyes are wide with emotion. I can’t exactly pinpoint which one. But something tells me it
might actually be…fear. At the very least, it’s anxiety. “Are you all right?”
“I’m fine,” I say, a little crankily. I still can’t believe I was wrong about Reverend Mark.
“I told you to stay where I could see you,” he snaps.
  
“Yeah,” I say. “Well, Reverend Hot Pants over here had other ideas.”
This is the wrong thing to say. Because the next thing I know, Cooper’s crossed the few feet
that separates him from Mark Halstead in a single leap, seeming unaware of the look of panic
that spreads across the reverend’s face as he does so. A second later, Cooper’s heaved
himself, left shoulder first, into Halstead’s stomach.
Then the two of them go tumbling down the stairwell.
20
Monday’s guy is full of himself
Tuesday’s guy drinks only scotch, top shelf
Wednesday’s guy is a commitment phobe
Thursday’s guy will never phone
“Guys of the Week”
Written by Heather Wells
It takes the combined efforts of Tom, Steve, Gavin, myself, and Jamie (“Dressage,” she
informs me, when I comment on her surprising amount of upper-body strength) to pull
Cooper and the Reverend Mark apart. When we do, we discover we’re too late to have
prevented any major damage. The paramedics later diagnose a broken nose and bruised ribs
(Reverend Mark) and dislocated finger along with possible concussion (Cooper). It’s
impossible to confirm Cooper’s concussion, however, because he refuses to go to the
hospital.
“What are they going to do for a concussion?” he wants to know, after the EMT has shoved
his pinky back into place. “Tell me not to take any codeine and have someone wake me up
every two hours to make sure I don’t go into a coma? Sorry, I can do that at home.”
Mark is surprisingly good-natured about his nose, refusing to press charges even after he
discovers his attacker is a Cartwright, of Cartwright Records.
“Maybe,” he says to me, as he’s being loaded into the ambulance (unlike Cooper, Reverend
Mark is only too eager to be taken to St. Vincent’s, possibly so as to postpone uncomfortable
questions he might be receiving from his superiors back at the student chapel), “this will
solve my little problem, by making me less appealing to the ladies.”
“Yeah,” I say to him. “Good luck with that.”
I’m still keeping the PNG in place, even if he didn’t kill Dr. Veatch. And Jamie’s still putting
through her formal complaint on him…it will be accompanied with my notes on his
admissions to me, plus the fact that he was dismissed from his previous two positions for
undisclosed reasons.
  
I mean, come on. He may not be a murderer.
But he’s still a letch.
“Well,” Sebastian says, as we all walk slowly back toward Fischer Hall after the excitement
has died down. Slowly because we’re keeping pace with Cooper, who, though he denies it,
appears to have suffered some contusions he didn’t mention to the paramedics that are
impeding his progress somewhat. “That was…anticlimactic.”
“Yeah, well, everything would have been all right if you hadn’t shown up,” I can’t help
snapping. I’m sort of hovering beside Cooper, ready to catch him if he falls over. He is not
amused by this, and has already asked me to get out of his way twice. I told him I was just
looking out for him, same as he was doing for me back at the sports center, but he pointed out
that to his certain knowledge, no homicidal preachers are stalking him.
This is just further proof that no good deed ever goes unpunished.
“It’s all my fault,” Sarah says, as we amble slowly down Bleecker Street, past the
underground comedy clubs and aboveground manicure and sushi shops. “I thought it would
be a good idea if Sebastian went to the memorial to pay his respects. It never occurred to me
that Mrs. Veatch would be such a psycho.”
“Well, how did you expect her to react?” Gavin wants to know. “Her ex-husband just got
iced.”
“That’s exactly it,” Sarah goes on. “He’s her ex, not her current husband. Her reaction was
completely unwarranted. That woman clearly has unresolved issues with Owen. That much is
obvious.”
I can’t help noticing that Sarah and Sebastian are holding hands. So I guess dinner with the
Blumenthals went well. As a matter of fact, Cooper and I are the only ones in the group
walking back toward Fischer Hall who aren’t holding hands. Love is definitely in the air.
In fact, I’d looked around after the paramedics had left, but Tad had disappeared. So, I
couldn’t help noticing, had Muffy.
I’m not saying the two of them left together or anything. I just couldn’t help noticing they
were both gone.
Of course, by then everyone else was, too. It turns out having a couple of ambulances show
up at a memorial service has a way of indicating to everyone that the party’s over. Tom and
Steve had left for their own place on the opposite side of the park, which was understandable.
And of course the Allingtons had left in their town car, and the Mrs. Veatches, as well.
Still. You’d have thought Tad, at least, would have stuck around, at the very least to walk me
home, considering, for all he knew, someone had just tried to kill me.
But I guess once you break up with a guy, all bets are off.
  
“I just think,” I say to Sebastian, “if you’d wanted to introduce yourself to Owen’s ex, your
timing could have been better.”
“But that’s just it,” Sebastian says. We’ve reached MacDougal, and turn onto it. Fischer Hall
is just a couple of blocks away. In the distance, we can already hear the roar from the GSC’s
rally in the park. The one at which I’m not singing “Sugar Rush.” “I already met Pam.”
“Um, nice try,” I say. “But that’s impossible. She only got into town today. And you just got
out of jail a few hours ago, right?”
“I’m hungry,” Jamie says. And no wonder. We’re passing West Third Street, and the evening
breeze is blowing in just such a way that it picks up the fragrant scent from Joe’s Pizza and
tosses it in our direction.
“We’ll order when we get home,” Gavin says. “Unless you want to go out.”
“Sweet,” Jamie says happily. “I like sausage and mushroom. You?”
“What do you know,” Gavin says. “I freaking 
