Suddenly the Union infantry rose from behind the stone wall on
Cemetery Ridge where they had been hiding and fired volley after
volley into Pickett's onrushing troops. The crest of the hill was a
sheet of flame, a slaughterhouse, a blazing volcano. In a few
minutes, all of Pickett's brigade commanders except one were down,
and four-fifths of his five thousand men had fallen.
General Lewis A. Armistead, leading the troops in the final plunge,
ran forward, vaulted over the stone wall, and, waving his cap on the
top of his sword, shouted: "Give 'em the steel, boys!"
They did. They leaped over the wall, bayoneted their enemies,
smashed skulls with clubbed muskets, and planted the battleflags of
the South on Cemetery Ridge. The banners waved there only for a
moment. But that moment, brief as it was, recorded the high-water
mark of the Confederacy.
Pickett's charge - brilliant, heroic - was nevertheless the beginning of
the end. Lee had failed. He could not penetrate the North. And he
knew it.
The South was doomed.
Lee was so saddened, so shocked, that he sent in his resignation and
asked Jefferson Davis, the president of the Confederacy, to appoint
"a younger and abler man." If Lee had wanted to blame the
disastrous failure of Pickett's charge on someone else, he could have
found a score of alibis. Some of his division commanders had failed
him. The cavalry hadn't arrived in time to support the infantry attack.
This had gone wrong and that had gone awry.
But Lee was far too noble to blame others. As Pickett's beaten and
bloody troops struggled back to the Confederate lines, Robert E. Lee
rode out to meet them all alone and greeted them with a selfcondemnation
that was little short of sublime. "All this has been my
fault," he confessed. "I and I alone have lost this battle."
Few generals in all history have had the courage and character to
admit that.
Michael Cheung, who teaches our course in Hong Kong, told of how
the Chinese culture presents some special problems and how
sometimes it is necessary to recognize that the benefit of applying a
principle may be more advantageous than maintaining an old
tradition. He had one middle-aged class member who had been
estranged from his son for many years. The father had been an
opium addict, but was now cured. In Chinese tradition an older
person cannot take the first step. The father felt that it was up to his
son to take the initiative toward a reconciliation. In an early session,
he told the class about the grandchildren he had never seen and how
much he desired to be reunited with his son. His classmates, all
Chinese, understood his conflict between his desire and longestablished
tradition. The father felt that young people should have
respect for their elders and that he was right in not giving in to his
desire, but to wait for his son to come to him.
Toward the end of the course the father again addressed his class. "I
have pondered this problem," he said. "Dale Carnegie says, 'If you
are wrong, admit it quickly and emphatically.' It is too late for me to
admit it quickly, but I can admit it emphatically. I wronged my son.
He was right in not wanting to see me and to expel me from his life.
I may lose face by asking a younger person's forgiveness, but I was
at fault and it is my responsibility to admit this." The class applauded
and gave him their full support. At the next class he told how he
went to his son's house, asked for and received forgiveness and was
now embarked on a new relationship with his son, his daughter-inlaw
and the grandchildren he had at last met.
Elbert Hubbard was one of the most original authors who ever stirred
up a nation, and his stinging sentences often aroused fierce
resentment. But Hubbard with his rare skill for handling people
frequently turned his enemies into friends.
For example, when some irritated reader wrote in to say that he
didn't agree with such and such an article and ended by calling
Hubbard this and that, Elbert Hubbard would answer like this:
Come to think it over, I don't entirely agree with it myself. Not
everything I wrote yesterday appeals to me today. I am glad to learn
what you think on the subject. The next time you are in the
neighborhood you must visit us and we'll get this subject threshed
out for all time. So here is a handclasp over the miles, and I am,
Yours sincerely,
What could you say to a man who treated you like that?
When we are right, let's try to win people gently and tactfully to our
way of thinking, and when we are wrong - and that will be
surprisingly often, if we are honest with ourselves - let's admit our
mistakes quickly and with enthusiasm. Not only will that technique
produce astonishing results; but, believe it or not, it is a lot more
fun, under the circumstances, than trying to defend oneself.
Remember the old proverb: "By fighting you never get enough, but
by yielding you get more than you expected."
• Principle 3 - If you are wrong, admit it quickly and emphatically.
~~~~~~~
4 - A Drop Of Honey
If your temper is aroused and you tell 'em a thing or two, you will
have a fine time unloading your feelings. But what about the other
person? Will he share your pleasure? Will your belligerent tones, your
hostile attitude, make it easy for him to agree with you?
"If you come at me with your fists doubled," said Woodrow Wilson,
"I think I can promise you that mine will double as fast as yours; but
if you come to me and say, 'Let us sit down and take counsel
together, and, if we differ from each other, understand why it is that
we differ, just what the points at issue are,' we will presently find
that we are not so far apart after all, that the points on which we
differ are few and the points on which we agree are many, and that
if we only have the patience and the candor and the desire to get
together, we will get together."
Nobody appreciated the truth of Woodrow Wilson's statement more
than John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Back in 1915, Rockefeller was the most
fiercely despised man in Colorado, One of the bloodiest strikes in the
history of American industry had been shocking the state for two
terrible years. Irate, belligerent miners were demanding higher
wages from the Colorado Fuel and Iron Company; Rockefeller
controlled that company. Property had been destroyed, troops had
been called out. Blood had been shed. Strikers had been shot, their
bodies riddled with bullets.
At a time like that, with the air seething with hatred, Rockefeller
wanted to win the strikers to his way of thinking. And he did it. How?
Here's the story. After weeks spent in making friends, Rockefeller
addressed the representatives of the strikers. This speech, in its
entirety, is a masterpiece. It produced astonishing results. It calmed
the tempestuous waves of hate that threatened to engulf
Rockefeller. It won him a host of admirers. It presented facts in such
a friendly manner that the strikers went back to work without saying
another word about the increase in wages for which they had fought
so violently.
The opening of that remarkable speech follows. Note how it fairly
glows with friendliness. Rockefeller, remember, was talking to men
who, a few days previously, had wanted to hang him by the neck to
a sour apple tree; yet he couldn't have been more gracious, more
friendly if he had addressed a group of medical missionaries. His
speech was radiant with such phrases as I am proud to be here,
having visited in your homes, met many of your wives and children,
we meet here not as strangers, but as friends ... spirit of mutual
friendship, our common interests, it is only by your courtesy that I
am here.
"This is a red-letter day in my life," Rockefeller began. "It is the first
time I have ever had the good fortune to meet the representatives of
the employees of this great company, its officers and
superintendents, together, and I can assure you that I am proud to
be here, and that I shall remember this gathering as long as I live.
Had this meeting been held two weeks ago, I should have stood here
a stranger to most of you, recognizing a few faces. Having had the
opportunity last week of visiting all the camps in the southern coal
field and of talking individually with practically all of the
representatives, except those who were away; having visited in your
homes, met many of your wives and children, we meet here not as
strangers, but as friends, and it is in that spirit of mutual friendship
that I am glad to have this opportunity to discuss with you our
common interests.
"Since this is a meeting of the officers of the company and the
representatives of the employees, it is only by your courtesy that I
am here, for I am not so fortunate as to be either one or the other;
and yet I feel that I am intimately associated with you men, for, in a
sense, I represent both the stockholders and the directors."
Isn't that a superb example of the fine art of making friends out of
enemies?
Suppose Rockefeller had taken a different tack. Suppose he had
argued with those miners and hurled devastating facts in their faces.
Suppose he had told them by his tones and insinuations that they
were wrong Suppose that, by all the rules of logic, he had proved
that they were wrong. What would have happened? More anger
would have been stirred up, more hatred, more revolt.
If a man's heart is rankling with discord and ill feeling toward you,
you can't win him to your way of thinking with all the logic in
Christendom. Scolding parents and domineering bosses and
husbands and nagging wives ought to realize that people don't want
to change their minds. They can't he forced or driven to agree with
you or me. But they may possibly be led to, if we are gentle and
friendly, ever so gentle and ever so friendly.
Lincoln said that, in effect, over a hundred years ago. Here are his
words:
It is an old and true maxim that "a drop of honey catches more flies
than a gallon of gall." So with men, if you would win a man to you
cause, first convince him that you are his sincere friend. Therein is a
drop of honey that catches his heart; which, say what you will, is the
great high road to his reason.
Business executives have learned that it pays to be friendly to
strikers. For example, when 2,500 employees in the White Motor
Company's plant struck for higher wages and a union shop, Robert F.
Black, then president of the company, didn't lose his temper and
condemn and threaten and talk of tryanny and Communists. He
actually praised the strikers. He published an advertisement in the
Cleveland papers, complimenting them on "the peaceful way in
which they laid down their tools." Finding the strike pickets idle, he
bought them a couple of dozen baseball bats and gloves and invited
them to play ball on vacant lots. For those who preferred bowling, he
rented a bowling alley.
This friendliness on Mr. Black's part did what friendliness always
does: it begot friendliness. So the strikers borrowed brooms, shovels,
and rubbish carts, and began picking up matches, papers, cigarette
stubs, and cigar butts around the factory. Imagine it! Imagine
strikers tidying up the factory grounds while battling for higher
wages and recognition of the union. Such an event had never been
heard of before in the long, tempestuous history of American labor
wars. That strike ended with a compromise settlement within a
week-ended without any ill feeling or rancor.
Daniel Webster, who looked like a god and talked like Jehovah, was
one of the most successful advocates who ever pleaded a case; yet
he ushered in his most powerful arguments with such friendly
remarks as: "It will be for the jury to consider," "This may perhaps
be worth thinking of," " Here are some facts that I trust you will not
lose sight of," or "You, with your knowledge of human nature, will
easily see the significance of these facts." No bulldozing. No highpressure
methods. No attempt to force his opinions on others.
Webster used the soft-spoken, quiet, friendly approach, and it helped
to make him famous.
You may never be called upon to settle a strike or address a jury, but
you may want to get your rent reduced. Will the friendly approach
help you then? Let's see.
0. L. Straub, an engineer, wanted to get his rent reduced. And he
knew his landlord was hard-boiled. "I wrote him," Mr. Straub said in
a speech before the class, "notifying him that I was vacating my
apartment as soon as my lease expired. The truth was, I didn't want
to move. I wanted to stay if I could get my rent reduced. But the
situation seemed hopeless. Other tenants had tried - and failed.
Everyone told me that the landlord was extremely difficult to deal
with. But I said to myself, 'I am studying a course in how to deal
with people, so I'll try it on him - and see how it works.'
"He and his secretary came to see me as soon as he got my letter. I
met him at the door with a friendly greeting. I fairly bubbled with
good will and enthusiasm. I didn't begin talking about how high the
rent was. I began talking about how much I liked his apartment
house. Believe me, I was 'hearty in my approbation and lavish in my
praise.' I complimented him on the way he ran the building and told
him I should like so much to stay for another year but I couldn't
afford it.
"He had evidently never had such a reception from a tenant. He
hardly knew what to make of it.
"Then he started to tell me his troubles. Complaining tenants. One
had written him fourteen letters, some of them positively insulting.
Another threatened to break his lease unless the landlord kept the
man on the floor above from snoring. 'What a relief it is,' he said, 'to
have a satisfied tenant like you.' And then, without my even asking
him to do it, he offered to reduce my rent a little. I wanted more, so
I named the figure I could afford to pay, and he accepted without a
word.
"As he was leaving, he turned to me and asked, 'What decorating
can I do for you?'
"If I had tried to get the rent reduced by the methods the other
tenants were using, I am positive I should have met with the same
failure they encountered. It was the friendly, sympathetic,
appreciative approach that won."
Dean Woodcock of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, is the superintendent of
a department of the local electric company. His staff was called upon
to repair some equipment on top of a pole. This type of work had
formerly been performed by a different department and had only
recently been transferred to Woodcock's section Although his people
had been trained in the work, this was the first time they had ever
actually been called upon to do it. Everybody in the organization was
interested in seeing if and how they could handle it. Mr. Woodcock,
several of his subordinate managers, and members of other
departments of the utility went to see the operation. Many cars and
trucks were there, and a number of people were standing around
watching the two lone men on top of the pole.
Glancing around, Woodcock noticed a man up the street getting out
of his car with a camera. He began taking pictures of the scene.
Utility people are extremely conscious of public relations, and
suddenly Woodcock realized what this setup looked like to the man
with the camera - overkill, dozens of people being called out to do a
two-person job. He strolled up the street to the photographer.
"I see you're interested in our operation."
"Yes, and my mother will be more than interested. She owns stock in
your company. This will be an eye-opener for her. She may even
decide her investment was unwise. I've been telling her for years
there's a lot of waste motion in companies like yours. This proves it.
The newspapers might like these pictures, too."
"It does look like it, doesn't it? I'd think the same thing in your
position. But this is a unique situation, . . ." and Dean Woodcock
went on to explain how this was the first job of this type for his
department and how everybody from executives down was
interested. He assured the man that under normal conditions two
people could handle the job. The photographer put away his camera,
shook Woodcock's hand, and thanked him for taking the time to
explain the situation to him.
Dean Woodcock's friendly approach saved his company much
embarrassment and bad publicity.
Another member of one of our classes, Gerald H. Winn of Littleton,
New Hampshire, reported how by using a friendly approach, he
obtained a very satisfactory settlement on a damage claim.
"Early in the spring," he reported, "before the ground had thawed
from the winter freezing, there was an unusually heavy rainstorm
and the water, which normally would have run off to nearby ditches
and storm drains along the road, took a new course onto a building
lot where I had just built a new home.
"Not being able to run off, the water pressure built up around the
foundation of the house. The water forced itself under the concrete
basement floor, causing it to explode, and the basement filled with
water. This ruined the furnace and the hot-water heater. The cost to
repair this damage was in excess of two thousand dollars. I had no
insurance to cover this type of damage.
"However, I soon found out that the owner of the subdivision had
neglected to put in a storm drain near the house which could have
prevented this problem I made an appointment to see him. During
the twenty-five-mile trip to his office, I carefully reviewed the
situation and, remembering the principles I learned in this course, I
decided that showing my anger would not serve any worthwhile
purpose, When I arrived, I kept very calm and started by talking
about his recent vacation to the West Indies; then, when I felt the
timing was right, I mentioned the 'little' problem of water damage.
He quickly agreed to do his share in helping to correct the problem.
"A few days later he called and said he would pay for the damage
and also put in a storm drain to prevent the same thing from
happening in the future.
"Even though it was the fault of the owner of the subdivision, if I had
not begun in a friendly way, there would have been a great deal of
difficulty in getting him to agree to the total liability."
Years ago, when I was a barefoot boy walking through the woods to
a country school out in northwest Missouri, I read a fable about the
sun and the wind. They quarreled about which was the stronger, and
the wind said, "I'll prove I am. See the old man down there with a
coat? I bet I can get his coat off him quicker than you can."
So the sun went behind a cloud, and the wind blew until it was
almost a tornado, but the harder it blew, the tighter the old man
clutched his coat to him.
Finally, the wind calmed down and gave up, and then the sun came
out from behind the clouds and smiled kindly on the old man.
Presently, he mopped his brow and pulled off his coat. The sun then
told the wind that gentleness and friendliness were always stronger
than fury and force.
The use of gentleness and friendliness is demonstrated day after day
by people who have learned that a drop of honey catches more flies
than a gallon of gall. F. Gale Connor of Lutherville, Maryland, proved
this when he had to take his four-month-old car to the service
department of the car dealer for the third time. He told our class: "It
was apparent that talking to, reasoning with or shouting at the
service manager was not going to lead to a satisfactory resolution of
my problems.
"I walked over to the showroom and asked to see the agency owner,
Mr. White. After a short wait, I was ushered into Mr. White's office. I
introduced myself and explained to him that I had bought my car
from his dealership because of the recommendations of friends who
had had previous dealings with him. I was told that his prices were
very competitive and his service was outstanding. He smiled with
satisfaction as he listened to me. I then explained the problem I was
having with the service department. 'I thought you might want to be
aware of any situation that might tarnish your fine reputation,' I
added. He thanked me for calling this to his attention and assured
me that my problem would be taken care of. Not only did he
personal get involved, but he also lent me his car to use while mine
was being repaired."
Aesop was a Greek slave who lived at the court of Croesus and spun
immortal fables six hundred years before Christ. Yet the truths he
taught about human nature are just as true in Boston and
Birmingham now as they were twenty-six centuries ago in Athens.
The sun can make you take off your coat more quickly than the
wind; and kindliness, the friendly approach and appreciation can
make people change their minds more readily than all the bluster
and storming in the world.
Remember what Lincoln said: "A drop of honey catches more flies
than a gallon of gall."
• Principle 4 - Begin in a friendly way.
~~~~~~~
5 - The Secret Of Socrates
In talking with people, don't begin by discussing the things on which
you differ. Begin by emphasizing - and keep on emphasizing - the
things on which you agree. Keep emphasizing, if possible, that you
are both striving for the same end and that your only difference is
one of method and not of purpose.
Get the other person saying "Yes, yes" at the outset. Keep your
opponent, if possible, from saying "No." A "No" response, according
to Professor Overstreet, (*) is a most difficult handicap to overcome.
When you have said "No," all your pride of personality demands that
you remain consistent with yourself. You may later feel that the "No"
was ill-advised; nevertheless, there is your precious pride to
consider! Once having said a thing, you feel you must stick to it.
Hence it is of the very greatest importance that a person be started
in the affirmative direction.
----
[*] Harry A. Overstreet, lnfluencing Humun Behavior (New York:
Norton, 1925).
----
The skillful speaker gets, at the outset, a number of "Yes" responses.
This sets the psychological process of the listeners moving in the
affirmative direction. It is like the movement of a billiard ball. Propel
in one direction, and it takes some force to deflect it; far more force
to send it back in the opposite direction.
The psychological patterns here are quite clear. When a person says
"No" and really means it, he or she is doing far more than saying a
word of two letters. The entire organism - glandular, nervous,
muscular -gathers itself together into a condition of rejection. There
is, usually in minute but sometimes in observable degree, a physical
withdrawal or readiness for withdrawal. The whole neuromuscular
system, in short, sets itself on guard against acceptance. When, to
the contrary, a person says "Yes," none of the withdrawal activities
takes place. The organism is in a forward - moving, accepting, open
attitude. Hence the more "Yeses" we can, at the very outset, induce,
the more likely we are to succeed in capturing the attention for our
ultimate proposal.
It is a very simple technique - this yes response. And yet, how much
it is neglected! It often seems as if people get a sense of their own
importance by antagonizing others at the outset.
Get a student to say "No" at the beginning, or a customer, child,
husband, or wife, and it takes the wisdom and the patience of angels
to transform that bristling negative into an affirmative.
The use of this "yes, yes" technique enabled James Eberson, who
was a teller in the Greenwich Savings Bank, in New York City, to
secure a prospective customer who might otherwise have been lost.
"This man came in to open an account," said Mr. Eberson, "and I
gave him our usual form to fill out. Some of the questions he
answered willingly, but there were others he flatly refused to answer.
"Before I began the study of human relations, I would have told this
prospective depositor that if he refused to give the bank this
information, we should have to refuse to accept this account. I am
ashamed that I have been guilty of doing that very thing in the past.
Naturally, an ultimatum like that made me feel good. I had shown
who was boss, that the bank's rules and regulations couldn't be
flouted. But that sort of attitude certainly didn't give a feeling of
welcome and importance to the man who had walked in to give us
his patronage.
"I resolved this morning to use a little horse sense. I resolved not to
talk about what the bank wanted but about what the customer
wanted. And above all else, I was determined to get him saying 'yes,
yes' from the very start. So I agreed with him. I told him the
information he refused to give was not absolutely necessary.
" 'However,' I said, 'suppose you have money in this bank at your
death. Wouldn't you like to have the bank transfer it to your next of
kin, who is entitled to it according to law?'
" 'Yes, of course,' he replied.
" 'Don't you think,' I continued, 'that it would be a good idea to give
us the name of your next of kin so that, in the event of your death,
we could carry out your wishes without error or delay?'
"Again he said, 'Yes.'
"The young man's attitude softened and changed when he realized
that we weren't asking for this information for our sake but for his
sake. Before leaving the bank, this young man not only gave me
complete information about himself but he opened, at my
suggestion, a trust account, naming his mother as the beneficiary for
his account, and he had gladly answered all the questions concerning
his mother also.
"I found that by getting him to say 'yes, yes' from the outset, he
forgot the issue at stake and was happy to do all the things I
suggested."
Joseph Allison, a sales representative for Westinghouse Electric
Company, had this story to tell: "There was a man in my territory
that our company was most eager to sell to. My predecessor had
called on him for ten years without selling anything When I took over
the territory, I called steadily for three years without getting an
order. Finally, after thirteen years of calls and sales talk, we sold him
a few motors. If these proved to be all right, an order for several
hundred more would follow. Such was my expectation,
"Right? I knew they would be all right. So when I called three weeks
later, I was in high spirits.
"The chief engineer greeted me with this shocking announcement:
'Allison, I can't buy the remainder of the motors from you.'
" 'Why?' I asked in amazement. 'Why?'
" 'Because your motors are too hot. I can't put my hand on them,'
"I knew it wouldn't do any good to argue. I had tried that sort of
thing too long. So I thought of getting the 'yes, yes' response.
" 'Well, now look, Mr. Smith,' I said. 'I agree with you a hundred
percent; if those motors are running too hot, you ought not to buy
any more of them. You must have motors that won't run any hotter
than standards set by the National Electrical Manufacturers
Association. Isn't that so?'
"He agreed it was. I had gotten my first 'yes.'
" 'The Electrical Manufacturers Association regulations say that a
properly designed motor may have a temperature of 72 degrees
Fahrenheit above room temperature. Is that correct?'
" 'Yes,' he agreed. 'That's quite correct. But your motors are much
hotter.'
"I didn't argue with him. I merely asked: 'How hot is the mill room?'
" 'Oh,' he said, 'about 75 degrees Fahrenheit.'
" 'Well,' I replied, 'if the mill room is 75 degrees and you add 72 to
that, that makes a total of 147 degrees Fahrenheit. Wouldn't you
scald your hand if you held it under a spigot of hot water at a
temperature of 147 degrees Fahrenheit?'
"Again he had to say 'yes.'
" 'Well,' I suggested, 'wouldn't it he a good idea to keep your hands
off those motors?'
" 'Well, I guess you're right,' he admitted. We continued to chat for a
while. Then he called his secretary and lined up approximately
$35,000 worth of business for the ensuing month.
"It took me years and cost me countless thousands of dollars in lost
business before I finally learned that it doesn't pay to argue, that it is
much more profitable and much more interesting to look at things
from the other person's viewpoint and try to get that person saying
'yes, yes.' "
Eddie Snow, who sponsors our courses in Oakland, California, tells
how he became a good customer of a shop because the proprietor
got him to say "yes, yes." Eddie had become interested in bow
hunting and had spent considerable money in purchasing equipment
and supplies from a local bow store. When his brother was visiting
him he wanted to rent a bow for him from this store. The sales clerk
told him they didn't rent bows, so Eddie phoned another bow store.
Eddie described what happened:
