By far the best-liked placement counselor in the Mid-town Personnel
Agency in New York City was Henrietta G ---- It hadn't always been
that way. During the first few months of her association with the
agency, Henrietta didn't have a single friend among her colleagues.
Why? Because every day she would brag about the placements she
had made, the new accounts she had opened, and anything else she
had accomplished.
"I was good at my work and proud of it," Henrietta told one of our
classes. " But instead of my colleagues sharing my triumphs, they
seemed to resent them. I wanted to be liked by these people. I really
wanted them to be my friends. After listening to some of the
suggestions made in this course, I started to talk about myself less
and listen more to my associates. They also had things to boast
about and were more excited about telling me about their
accomplishments than about listening to my boasting. Now, when we
have some time to chat, I ask them to share their joys with me, and
I only mention my achievements when they ask."
• Principle 6 Let the other person do a great deal of the talking.
~~~~~~~
7 - How To Get Cooperation
Don't you have much more faith in ideas that you discover for
yourself than in ideas that are handed to you on a silver platter? If
so, isn't it bad judgment to try to ram your opinions down the
throats of other people? Isn't it wiser to make suggestions - and let
the other person think out the conclusion?
Adolph Seltz of Philadelphia, sales manager in an automobile
showroom and a student in one of my courses, suddenly found
himself confronted with the necessity of injecting enthusiasm into a
discouraged and disorganized group of automobile salespeople.
Calling a sales meeting, he urged his people to tell him exactly what
they expected from him. As they talked, he wrote their ideas on the
blackboard. He then said: "I'll give you all these qualities you expect
from me. Now I want you to tell me what I have a right to expect
from you." The replies came quick and fast: loyalty, honesty,
initiative, optimism, teamwork, eight hours a day of enthusiastic
work, The meeting ended with a new courage, a new inspiration -
one salesperson volunteered to work fourteen hours a day - and Mr.
Seltz reported to me that the increase of sales was phenomenal.
"The people had made a sort of moral bargain with me, " said Mr.
Seltz, "and as long as I lived up to my part in it, they were
determined to live up to theirs. Consulting them about their wishes
and desires was just the shot in the arm they needed."
No one likes to feel that he or she is being sold some-thing or told to
do a thing. We much prefer to feel that we are buying of our own
accord or acting on our own ideas. We like to be consulted about our
wishes, our wants, our thoughts.
Take the case of Eugene Wesson. He lost countless thousands of
dollars in commissions before he learned this truth. Mr. Wesson sold
sketches for a studio that created designs for stylists and textile
manufacturers. Mr. Wesson had called on one of the leading stylists
in New York once a week, every week for three years. "He never
refused to see me," said Mr. Wesson, "but he never bought. He
always looked over my sketches very carefully and then said: 'No,
Wesson, I guess we don't get together today.' "
After 150 failures, Wesson realized he must be in a mental rut, so he
resolved to devote one evening a week to the study of influencing
human behavior, to help him develop new ideas and generate new
enthusiasm.
He decided on this new approach. With half a dozen unfinished
artists' sketches under his arm, he rushed over to the buyer's office.
"I want you to do me a little favor, if you will," he said. "'Here are
some uncompleted sketches. Won't you please tell me how we could
finish them up in such a way that you could use them?"
The buyer looked at the sketches for a while without uttering a word.
Finally he said: "Leave these with me for a few days, Wesson, and
then come back and see me."
Wesson returned three davs later, got his suggestions, took the
sketches back to the studio and had them finished according to the
buyer's ideas. The result? All accepted.
After that, this buyer ordered scores of other sketches from Wesson,
all drawn according to the buyer's ideas. "I realized why I had failed
for years to sell him," said Mr. Wesson. " I had urged him to buy
what I thought he ought to have. Then I changed my approach
completely. I urged him to give me his ideas. This made him feel
that he was creating the designs. And he was. I didn't have to sell
him. He bought."
Letting the other person feel that the idea is his or hers not only
works in business and politics, it works in family life as well. Paul M.
Davis of Tulsa, Oklahoma, told his class how he applied this
principle:
"My family and I enjoyed one of the most interesting sightseeing
vacation trips we have ever taken. I had long dreamed of visiting
such historic sites as the Civil War battlefield in Gettysburg,
Independence Hall in Philadelphia, and our nation's capital. Valley
Forge, James-town and the restored colonial village of Williamsburg
were high on the list of things I wanted to see.
"In March my wife, Nancy, mentioned that she had ideas for our
summer vacation which included a tour of the western states, visiting
points of interest in New Mexico, Arizona, California and Nevada. She
had wanted to make this trip for several years. But we couldn't
obviously make both trips.
"Our daughter, Anne, had just completed a course in U.S. history in
junior high school and had become very interested in the events that
had shaped our country's growth. I asked her how she would like to
visit the places she had learned about on our next vacation. She said
she would love to.
"Two evenings later as we sat around the dinner table, Nancy
announced that if we all agreed, the summer's vacation would be to
the eastern states, that it would he a great trip for Anne and thrilling
for all of us. We all concurred."
This same psychology was used by an X-ray manufacturer to sell his
equipment to one of the largest hospitals in Brooklyn This hospital
was building an addition and preparing to equip it with the finest Xray
department in America. Dr. L----, who was in charge of the X-ray
department, was overwhelmed with sales representatives, each
caroling the praises of his own company's equipment.
One manufacturer, however, was more skillful. He knew far more
about handling human nature than the others did. He wrote a letter
something like this:
Our factory has recently completed a new line of X-ray equipment.
The first shipment of these machines has just arrived at our office.
They are not perfect. We know that, and we want to improve them.
So we should be deeply obligated to you if you could find time to
look them over and give us your ideas about how they can be made
more serviceable to your profession. Knowing how occupied you are,
I shall be glad to send my car for you at any hour you specify.
"I was surprised to get that letter," Dr. L ---- said as he related the
incident before the class. "I was both surprised and complimented. I
had never had an X-ray manufacturer seeking my advice before. It
made me feel important. I was busy every night that week, but I
canceled a dinner appointment in order to look over the equipment.
The more I studied it, the more I discovered for myself how much I
liked it.
"Nobody had tried to sell it to me. I felt that the idea of buying that
equipment for the hospital was my own. I sold myself on its superior
qualities and ordered it installed."
Ralph Waldo Emerson in his essay "Self-Reliance" stated: "In every
work of genius we recognize our own rejected thoughts; they come
back to us with a certain alienated majesty."
Colonel Edward M. House wielded an enormous influence in national
and international affairs while Woodrow Wilson occupied the White
House. Wilson leaned upon Colonel House for secret counsel and
advice more than he did upon even members of his own cabinet.
What method did the Colonel use in influencing the President?
Fortunately, we know, for House himself revealed it to Arthur D.
Howden Smith, and Smith quoted House in an article in The
Saturday Evening Post.
" 'After I got to know the President,' House said, 'I learned the best
way to convert him to an idea was to plant it in his mind casually,
but so as to interest him in it - so as to get him thinking about it on
his own account. The first time this worked it was an accident. I had
been visiting him at the White House and urged a policy on him
which he appeared to disapprove. But several days later, at the
dinner table, I was amazed to hear him trot out my suggestion as his
own.' "
Did House interrupt him and say, "That's not your idea. That's mine"
? Oh, no. Not House. He was too adroit for that. He didn't care about
credit. He wanted results. So he let Wilson continue to feel that the
idea was his. House did even more than that. He gave Wilson public
credit for these ideas.
Let's remember that everyone we come in contact with is just as
human as Woodrow Wilson. So let's use Colonel House's technique.
A man up in the beautiful Canadian province of New Brunswick used
this technique on me and won my patronage. I was planning at the
time to do some fishing and canoeing in New Brunswick. So I wrote
the tourist bureau for information. Evidently my name and address
were put on a mailing list, for I was immediately overwhelmed with
scores of letters and booklets and printed testimonials from camps
and guides. I was bewildered. I didn't know which to choose. Then
one camp owner did a clever thing. He sent me the names and
telephone numbers of several New York people who had stayed at
his camp and he invited me to telephone them and discover for
myself what he had to offer.
I found to my surprise that I knew one of the men on his list. I
telephoned him, found out what his experience had been, and then
wired the camp the date of my arrival.
The others had been trying to sell me on their service, but one let
me sell myself. That organization won. Twenty-five centuries ago,
Lao-tse, a Chinese sage, said some things that readers of this book
might use today:
" The reason why rivers and seas receive the homage of a hundred
mountain streams is that they keep below them. Thus they are able
to reign over all the mountain streams. So the sage, wishing to be
above men, putteth himself below them; wishing to be before them,
he putteth himself behind them. Thus, though his place be above
men, they do not feel his weight; though his place be before them,
they do not count it an injury."
• Principle 7 - Let the other person feel that the idea is his or hers.
~~~~~~~
8 - A Formula That Will Work Wonders For You
Remember that other people may be totally wrong. But they don't
think so. Don't condemn them. Any fool can do that. Try to
understand them. Only wise, tolerant, exceptional people even try to
do that.
There is a reason why the other man thinks and acts as he does.
Ferret out that reason - and you have the key to his actions, perhaps
to his personality. Try honestly to put yourself in his place.
If you say to yourself, "How would I feel, how would I react if I were
in his shoes?" you will save yourself time and irritation, for "by
becoming interested in the cause, we are less likely to dislike the
effect." And, in addition, you will sharply increase your skill in human
relationships.
"Stop a minute," says Kenneth M. Goode in his book How to Turn
People Into Gold, "stop a minute to contrast your keen interest in
your own affairs with your mild concern about anything else. Realize
then, that everybody else in the world feels exactly the same way!
Then, along with Lincoln and Roosevelt, you will have grasped the
only solid foundation for interpersonal relationships; namely, that
success in dealing with people depends on a sympathetic grasp of
the other persons' viewpoint."
Sam Douglas of Hempstead, New York, used to tell his wife that she
spent too much time working on their lawn, pulling weeds, fertilizing,
cutting the grass twice a week when the lawn didn't look any better
than it had when they moved into their home four years earlier.
Naturally, she was distressed by his remarks, and each time he made
such remarks the balance of the evening was ruined.
After taking our course, Mr. Douglas realized how foolish he had
been all those years. It never occurred to him that she enjoyed doing
that work and she might really appreciate a compliment on her
diligence.
One evening after dinner, his wife said she wanted to pull some
weeds and invited him to keep her company. He first declined, but
then thought better of it and went out after her and began to help
her pull weeds. She was visibly pleased, and together they spent an
hour in hard work and pleasant conversation.
After that he often helped her with the gardening and complimented
her on how fine the lawn looked, what a fantastic job she was doing
with a yard where the soil was like concrete. Result: a happier life for
both because he had learned to look at things from her point of view
- even if the subject was only weeds.
In his book Getting Through to People, Dr. Gerald S. Nirenberg
commented: "Cooperativeeness in conversation is achieved when
you show that you consider the other person's ideas and feelings as
important as your own. Starting your conversation by giving the
other person the purpose or direction of your conversation,
governing what you say by what you would want to hear if you were
the listener, and accepting his or her viewpoint will encourage the
listener to have an open mind to your ideas." (*)
----
[*] Dr Gerald S. Nirenberg, Getting Through to People (Englewood
Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1963), p. 31.
----
I have always enjoyed walking and riding in a park near my home.
Like the Druids of ancient Gaul, I all but worship an oak tree, so I
was distressed season after season to see the young trees and
shrubs killed off by needless fires. These fires weren't caused by
careless smokers. They were almost all caused by youngsters who
went out to the park to go native and cook a frankfurter or an egg
under the trees. Sometimes, these fires raged so fiercely that the fire
department had to be called out to fight the conflagration.
There was a sign on the edge of the park saying that anyone who
started a fire was liable to fine and imprisonment, but the sign stood
in an unfrequented part of the park, and few of the culprits ever saw
it. A mounted policeman was supposed to look after the park; but he
didn't take his duties too seriously, and the fires continued to spread
season after season. On one occasion, I rushed up to a policeman
and told him about a fire spreading rapidly through the park and
wanted him to notify the fire department, and he nonchalantly
replied that it was none of his business because it wasn't in his
precinct! I was desperate, so after that when I went riding, I acted
as a self-appointed committee of one to protect the public domain.
In the beginning, I am afraid I didn't even attempt to see the other
people's point of view. When I saw a fire blazing under the trees, I
was so unhappy about it, so eager to do the right thing, that I did
the wrong thing. I would ride up to the boys, warn them that they
could be jailed for starting a fire, order with a tone of authority that
it be put out; and, if they refused, I would threaten to have them
arrested. I was merely unloading my feelings without thinking of
their point of view.
The result? They obeyed - obeyed sullenly and with resentment.
After I rode on over the hill, they probably rebuilt the fire and longed
to burn up the whole park.
With the passing of the years, I acquired a trifle more knowledge of
human relations, a little more tact, a somewhat greater tendency to
see things from the other person's standpoint. Then, instead of
giving orders, I would ride up to a blazing fire and begin something
like this:
"Having a good time, boys? What are you going to cook for supper?
... I loved to build fires myself when I was a boy - and I still love to.
But you know they are very dangerous here in the park. I know you
boys don't mean to do any harm, but other boys aren't so careful.
They come along and see that you have built a fire; so they build
one and don't put it out when they go home and it spreads among
the dry leaves and kills the trees. We won't have any trees here at all
if we aren't more careful, You could be put in jail for building this
fire. But I don't want to be bossy and interfere with your pleasure. I
like to see you enjoy yourselves; but won't you please rake all the
leaves away from the fire right now - and you'll be careful to cover it
with dirt, a lot of dirt, before you leave, won't you? And the next
time you want to have some fun, won't you please build your fire
over the hill there in the sandpit? It can't do any harm there.. . .
Thanks so much, boys. Have a good time."
What a difference that kind of talk made! It made the boys want to
cooperate. No sullenness, no resentment. They hadn't been forced to
obey orders. They had saved their faces. They felt better and I felt
better because I had handled the situation with consideration for
their point of view.
Seeing things through another person's eyes may ease tensions
when personal problems become overwhelming. Elizabeth Novak of
New South Wales, Australia, was six weeks late with her car
payment. "On a Friday," she reported, "I received a nasty phone call
from the man who was handling my account informing me if I did
not come up with $122 by Monday morning I could anticipate further
action from the company. I had no way of raising the money over
the weekend, so when I received his phone call first thing on Monday
morning I expected the worst. Instead of becoming upset I looked at
the situation from his point of view. I apologized most sincerely for
causing him so much inconvenience and remarked that I must be his
most troublesome customer as this was not the first time I was
behind in my payments. His tone of voice changed immediately, and
he reassured me that I was far from being one of his really
troublesome customers. He went on to tell me several examples of
how rude his customers sometimes were, how they lied to him and
often tried to avoid talking to him at all. I said nothing. I listened and
let him pour out his troubles to me. Then, without any suggestion
from me, he said it did not matter if I couldn't pay all the money
immediately. It would be all right if I paid him $20 by the end of the
month and made up the balance whenever it was convenient for me
to do so."
Tomorrow, before asking anyone to put out a fire or buy your
product or contribute to your favorite charity, why not pause and
close your eyes and try to think the whole thing through from
another person's point of view? Ask yourself: "Why should he or she
want to do it?" True, this will take time, but it will avoid making
enemies and will get better results - and with less friction and less
shoe leather.
"I would rather walk the sidewalk in front of a person's office for two
hours before an interview," said Dean Donham of the Harvard
business school, "than step into that office without a perfectly clear
idea of what I was going to say and what that person - from my
knowledge of his or her interests and motives - was likely to
answer."
That is so important that I am going to repeat it in italics for the sake
of emphasis.
I would rather walk the sidewalk in front of a person's office for two
hours before an interview than step into that office without a
perfectly clear idea of what I was going to say and what that persob
- from my knowledge of his or her interests and motives - was likely
to answer.
If, as a result of reading this book, you get only one thing - an
increased tendency to think always in terms of the other person's
point of view, and see things from that person's angle as well as
your own - if you get only that one thing from this book, it may
easily prove to be one of the stepping - stones of your career.
• Principle 8 - Try honestly to see things from the other person's
point of view.
~~~~~~~
9 - What Everybody Wants
Wouldn't you like to have a magic phrase that would stop
arguments, eliminate ill feeling, create good will, and make the other
person listen attentively?
Yes? All right. Here it is: "I don't blame you one iota for feeling as
you do. If I were you I would undoubtedly feel just as you do."
An answer like that will soften the most cantankerous old cuss alive.
And you can say that and be 100 percent sincere, because if you
were the other person you, of course, would feel just as he does.
Take Al Capone, for example. Suppose you had inherited the same
body and temperament and mind that Al Capone had. Suppose you
had had his environment and experiences. You would then be
precisely what he was - and where he was. For it is those things -
and only those things - that made him what he was. The only
reason, for example, that you are not a rattlesnake is that your
mother and father weren't rattlesnakes.
You deserve very little credit for being what you are - and
remember, the people who come to you irritated, bigoted,
unreasoning, deserve very little discredit for being what they are.
Feel sorry for the poor devils. Pity them. Sympathize with them. Say
to yourself: "There, but for the grace of God, go I."
Three-fourths of the people you will ever meet are hungering and
thirsting for sympathy. Give it to them, and they will love you.
I once gave a broadcast about the author of Little Women, Louisa
May Alcott. Naturally, I knew she had lived and written her immortal
books in Concord, Massachusetts. But, without thinking what I was
saying, I spoke of visiting her old home in Concord. New Hampshire.
If I had said New Hampshire only once, it might have been forgiven.
But, alas and alack! I said it twice, I was deluged with letters and
telegrams, stinging messages that swirled around my defenseless
head like a swarm of hornets. Many were indignant. A few insulting.
One Colonial Dame, who had been reared in Concord,
Massachusetts, and who was then living in Philadelphia, vented her
scorching wrath upon me. She couldn't have been much more bitter
if I had accused Miss Alcott of being a cannibal from New Guinea. As
I read the letter, I said to myself, "Thank God, I am not married to
that woman." I felt like writing and telling her that although I had
made a mistake in geography, she had made a far greater mistake in
common courtesy. That was to be just my opening sentence. Then I
was going to roll up my sleeves and tell her what I really thought.
But I didn't. I controlled myself. I realized that any hotheaded fool
could do that - and that most fools would do just that.
I wanted to be above fools. So I resolved to try to turn her hostility
into friendliness. It would be a challenge, a sort of game I could
play. I said to myself, "After all, if I were she, I would probably feel
just as she does." So, I determined to sympathize with her
viewpoint. The next time I was in Philadelphia, I called her on the
telephone. The conversation went something like this:
ME: Mrs. So-and-So, you wrote me a letter a few weeks ago, and I
want to thank you for it.
SHE: (in incisive, cultured, well-bred tones): To whom have I the
honor of speaking?
ME: I am a stranger to you. My name is Dale Carnegie. You listened
to a broadcast I gave about Louisa May Alcott a few Sundays ago,
and I made the unforgivable blunder of saying that she had lived in
Concord, New Hampshire. It was a stupid blunder, and I want to
apologize for it. It was so nice of you to take the time to write me.
SHE : I am sorry, Mr. Carnegie, that I wrote as I did. I lost my
temper. I must apologize.
ME: No! No! You are not the one to apologize; I am. Any school child
would have known better than to have said what I said. I apologized
over the air the following Sunday, and I want to apologize to you
personally now.
SHE : I was born in Concord, Massachusetts. My family has been
prominent in Massachusetts affairs for two centuries, and I am very
proud of my native state. I was really quite distressed to hear you
say that Miss Alcott had lived in New Hampshire. But I am really
ashamed of that letter.
ME: I assure you that you were not one-tenth as distressed as I am.
My error didn't hurt Massachusetts, but it did hurt me. It is so
seldom that people of your standing and culture take the time to
write people who speak on the radio, and I do hope you will write
me again if you detect an error in my talks.
SHE: You know, I really like very much the way you have accepted
my criticism. You must be a very nice person. I should like to know
you better.
So, because I had apologized and sympathized with her point of
view, she began apologizing and sympathizing with my point of view,
I had the satisfaction of controlling my temper, the satisfaction of
returning kindness for an insult. I got infinitely more real fun out of
making her like me than I could ever have gotten out of telling her to
go and take a jump in the Schuylkill River,
how he softened the ire of a disappointed and ambitious mother.
"A lady in Washington," wrote Taft, "whose husband had some
political influence, came and labored with me for six weeks or more
to appoint her son to a position. She secured the aid of Senators and
Congressmen in formidable number and came with them to see that
they spoke with emphasis. The place was one requiring technical
qualification, and following the recommendation of the head of the
Bureau, I appointed somebody else. I then received a letter from the
mother, saying that I was most ungrateful, since I declined to make
her a happy woman as I could have done by a turn of my hand. She
complained further that she had labored with her state delegation
and got all the votes for an administration bill in which I was
especially interested and this was the way I had rewarded her.
"When you get a letter like that, the first thing you do is to think how
you can be severe with a person who has committed an impropriety,
or even been a little impertinent. Then you may compose an answer.
Then if you are wise, you will put the letter in a drawer and lock the
drawer. Take it out in the course of two days - such communications
will always bear two days' delay in answering - and when you take it
out after that interval, you will not send it. That is just the course I
took. After that, I sat down and wrote her just as polite a letter as I
could, telling her I realized a mother's disappointment under such
circumstances, but that really the appointment was not left to my
mere personal preference, that I had to select a man with technical
qualifications, and had, therefore, to follow the recommendations of
the head of the Bureau. I expressed the hope that her son would go
on to accomplish what she had hoped for him in the position which
he then had. That mollified her and she wrote me a note saying she
was sorry she had written as she had.
