car: transportation for individuals and families. But it had a very
different form: a live animal versus a machine. Ford effectively converted
the majority of noncustomers of the auto industry, namely
customers of horse-drawn carriages, into customers of its own blue
ocean by pricing its Model T against horse-drawn carriages and not
the cars of other automakers.
In the case of the school lunch catering industry, raising this
question led to an interesting insight. Suddenly those parents who
make their children’s lunches came into the equation. For many
children, parents had the same function: making their child’s
lunch. But they had a very different form: mom or dad versus a
lunch line in the cafeteria.
Different form and function, same objective. Some companies
lure customers from even further away. Cirque du Soleil, for example,
has diverted customers from a wide range of evening activities.
Its growth came in part through drawing people away from other
activities that differed in both form and function. For example, bars
and restaurants have few physical features in common with a circus.
They also serve a distinct function by providing conversational
and gastronomical pleasure, a very different experience from the
visual entertainment that a circus offers. Yet despite these differences
in form and function, people have the same objective in undertaking
these three activities: to enjoy a night out.
Listing the groups of alternative products and services allows
managers to see the full range of buyers they can poach from other
industries as well as from nonindustries, such as parents (for the
school lunch catering industry) or the noble pencil in managing
household finances (for the personal finance software industry).
Get the Strategic Sequence Right 129
Having done this, managers should then graphically plot the price
and volume of these alternatives, as shown in figure 6-5.
This approach provides a straightforward way to identify where
the mass of target buyers is and what prices these buyers are prepared
to pay for the products and services they currently use. The
price bandwidth that captures the largest groups of target buyers is
the price corridor of the mass.
In some cases, the range is very wide. For Southwest Airlines, for
example, the price corridor of the mass covered the group of people
paying, on average, $400 to buy an economy-class short-haul ticket
to about $60 for the cost of going the same distance by car. The key
here is not to pursue pricing against the competition within an industry
but rather to pursue pricing against substitutes and alternatives
across industries and nonindustries. Had Ford, for example,
priced its Model T against other autos, which were more than three
times the price of horse-drawn carriages, the market for the Model
T would not have exploded.
Step 2: Specify a Level Within the Price Corridor
The second part of the tool helps managers determine how high a
price they can afford to set within the corridor without inviting
competition from imitation products or services. That assessment
depends on two principal factors. First is the degree to which the
product or service is protected legally through patents or copyrights.
Second is the degree to which the company owns some exclusive
asset or core capability, such as an expensive production plant, that
can block imitation. Dyson, a British electrical white goods company,
for example, has been able to charge a high unit price for its
bagless vacuum cleaner since the product’s launch in 1995, thanks
to both strong patents and hard-to-imitate service capabilities.
Many other companies have used upper-boundary strategic pricing
to attract the mass of target buyers. Examples include DuPont
with its Lycra brand in specialty chemicals, Philips’ ALTO in the
professional lighting industry, SAP in the business application
software industry, and Bloomberg in the financial software industry.
130 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
On the other hand, companies with uncertain patent and asset
protection should consider pricing somewhere in the middle of the
corridor. As for companies that have no such protection, they must
set a relatively low price. In the case of Southwest Airlines, because
its service wasn’t patentable and required no exclusive assets, its
ticket prices fell into the lower boundary of the corridor—namely,
against the price of car travel. Companies would be wise to pursue
the target cost. Here, price-minus costing, and not cost-plus
pricing, is essential if you are to arrive at a cost structure that is
both profitable and hard for potential followers to match.
When target costing is driven by strategic pricing, however, it is
usually aggressive. Part of the challenge of meeting the target cost
Get the Strategic Sequence Right 131
is addressed in building a strategic profile that has not only divergence
but also focus, which makes a company strip out costs. Think
of the cost reductions Cirque du Soleil enjoyed by eliminating animals
and stars or that Ford enjoyed by making the Model T in one
color and one model having few options.
Sometimes these reductions are sufficient to hit the cost target,
but often they are not. Consider the cost innovations that Ford had
to introduce to meet its aggressive target cost for the Model T. Ford
had to scrap the standard manufacturing system, in which cars
were handmade by skilled craftsmen from start to finish. Instead,
Ford introduced the assembly line, which replaced skilled craftsmen
with ordinary unskilled laborers, who worked one small task
faster and more efficiently, cutting the time to make a Model T from
twenty-one days to four days and cutting labor hours by 60 percent.3
Had Ford not introduced these cost innovations, it could not have
met its strategic price profitably.
Instead of drilling down and finding ways to creatively meet the
target cost as Ford did, if companies give in to the tempting route
of either bumping up the strategic price or cutting back on utility,
they are not on the path to lucrative blue waters. To hit the cost target,
companies have three principal levers.
The first involves streamlining operations and introducing cost
innovations from manufacturing to distribution. Can the product’s
or service’s raw materials be replaced by unconventional, less expensive
ones—such as switching from metal to plastic or shifting a
call center from the U.K. to Bangalore? Can high-cost, low-valueadded
activities in your value chain be significantly eliminated,
reduced, or outsourced? Can the physical location of your product
or service be shifted from prime real estate locations to lower-cost
locations, as The Home Depot, IKEA, and Wal-Mart have done in
retail or Southwest Airlines has done by shifting from major to secondary
airports? Can you truncate the number of parts or steps
used in production by shifting the way things are made, as Ford did
by introducing the assembly line? Can you digitize activities to reduce
costs?
132 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
By probing questions such as these, the Swiss watch company
Swatch, for example, was able to arrive at a cost structure some 30
percent lower than any other watch company in the world. At the
start, Nicolas Hayek, chairman of Swatch, set up a project team to
determine the strategic price for the Swatch. At the time, cheap
(about $75), high-precision quartz watches from Japan and Hong
Kong were capturing the mass market. Swatch set the price at $40,
a price at which people could buy multiple Swatches as fashion accessories.
The low price left no profit margin for Japanese or Hong
Kong-based companies to copy Swatch and undercut its price. Directed
to sell the Swatch for that price and not a penny more, the
Swatch project team worked backwards to arrive at the target cost,
a process that involved determining the margin Swatch needed to
support marketing and services and earn a profit.
Given the high cost of Swiss labor, Swatch was able to achieve
this goal only by making radical changes in the product and production
methods. Instead of using the more traditional metal or
leather, for example, Swatch used plastic. Swatch’s engineers also
drastically simplified the design of the watch’s inner workings, reducing
the number of parts from one hundred fifty to fifty-one. Finally,
the engineers developed new and cheaper assembly techniques;
for example, the watch cases were sealed by ultrasonic welding instead
of screws. Taken together, the design and manufacturing
changes enabled Swatch to reduce direct labor costs from 30 percent
to less than 10 percent of total costs. These cost innovations
produced a cost structure that is hard to beat and let Swatch profitably
dominate the mass market for watches, a market previously
dominated by Asian manufacturers with a cheaper labor pool.
Beyond streamlining operations and introducing cost innovations,
a second lever companies can pull to meet their target cost is
partnering. In bringing a new product or service to market, many
companies mistakenly try to carry out all the production and distribution
activities themselves. Sometimes that’s because they see
the product or service as a platform for developing new capabilities.
Other times it is simply a matter of not considering other out-
Get the Strategic Sequence Right 133
side options. Partnering, however, provides a way for companies to
secure needed capabilities fast and effectively while dropping their
cost structure. It allows a company to leverage other companies’ expertise
and economies of scale. Partnering includes closing gaps in
capabilities through making small acquisitions when doing so is
faster and cheaper, providing access to needed expertise that has
customers, with no cost implication to the company.
Sometimes, however, no amount of streamlining and cost innovation
or partnering will make it possible for a company to deliver
its target cost. This brings us to the third lever companies can use
to make their desired profit margin without compromising their
strategic price: changing the pricing model of the industry. By
changing the pricing model used—and not the level of the strategic
price—companies can often overcome this problem.
When film videotapes first came out, for example, they were
tape, demand was not taking off. How could a company make
money by selling the videos at only a few dollars if it followed the
path of using strategic pricing? The answer was that it couldn’t.
Blockbuster, however, got around this problem by changing the
pricing model from selling to renting. This allowed it to strategically
price videotapes at only a few dollars per rental. The result
was that the home video market exploded and Blockbuster made
more money by repeatedly renting the same $80 videos than it
could have by selling them outright. Similarly, IBM exploded the
tabulating market by shifting the pricing model from selling to
leasing to hit its strategic price while covering its cost structure.
In addition to Blockbuster’s rental model or IBM’s leasing
model, companies have used several innovations in pricing models
to profitably deliver on the strategic price. One model is the timeshare.
The New Jersey company NetJets follows this model to make
jets accessible to a wide range of corporate customers, who buy the
right to use a jet for a certain amount of time rather than buy the
jet itself. Another model is the slice-share; mutual fund managers,
for example, bring high-quality portfolio services—traditionally
provided by private banks to the rich—to the small investor by selling
a sliver of the portfolio rather than its whole.
Some companies are abandoning the concept of price altogether.
Instead, they give products to customers in return for an equity interest
in the customer’s business. Hewlett-Packard
profit by using the foregoing three levers. As the figure depicts, a
Get the Strategic Sequence Right 135
company begins with its strategic price, from which it deducts its
target profit margin to arrive at its target cost. To hit the cost target
that supports that profit, companies have two key levers: One is
streamlining and cost innovations, and the other is partnering.
When the target cost cannot be met despite all efforts to build a
low-cost business model, the company should turn to the third
lever, pricing innovation, to profitably meet the strategic price. Of
course, even when the target cost can be met, pricing innovation
still can be pursued. When a company’s offering successfully addresses
the profit side of the business model, the company is ready
to advance to the final step in the sequence of blue ocean strategy
of environmental concern and powerful agricultural lobbies.
Monsanto’s mistake was to let others take charge of the debate.
The company should have educated the environmental groups as
well as the public on the benefits of genetically modified food and
its potential to eliminate world famine and disease. When the products
came out, Monsanto should have given consumers a choice between
organic and genetically modified foods by labeling which
products had genetically modified seeds as their base. If Monsanto
had taken these steps, then instead of being vilified, it might have
ended up as the “Intel Inside” of food for the future—the provider
of the essential technology.
In educating these three groups of stakeholders—your employees,
your partners, and the general public—the key challenge is to
engage in an open discussion about why the adoption of the new
idea is necessary. You need to explain its merits, set clear expectations
for its ramifications, and describe how the company will address
them. Stakeholders need to know that their voices have been
heard and that there will be no surprises. Companies that take the
trouble to have such a dialogue with stakeholders will find that it
amply repays the time and effort involved. (For a fuller discussion
Philips CD-i, it did not create exceptional buyer utility with its offering
of complex technological functions and limited software
titles. It was priced out of reach of the mass of buyers, and its manufacturing
process was complicated and costly. With its complicated
design, it took more than thirty minutes to explain and sell to
customers, something that gave no incentive for sales clerks to sell
CD-i in fast-moving retail. Philips CD-i therefore failed all four criteria
on the BOI index despite the billions poured into it.
By assessing the business idea of the CD-i against the BOI index
during development, Philips could have foreseen the shortcomings
embedded in the idea and addressed them up front by simplifying
the product and locking in partners to develop winning software titles,
setting a strategic price accessible to the masses, instituting
price-minus costing instead of cost-plus pricing, and working with
retail to find a simple, easy way for the sales force to sell and explain
the product in a few minutes.
the mass of buyers, not being usable in buildings or cars and being
the size of a brick. When it came to adoption, Motorola overcame
many regulations and secured transmission rights from numerous
countries. Employees, partners, and the society were also reasonably
motivated to accept the idea. But the company had a weak
sales team and marketing channels in the global markets. Because
Motorola was not able to follow up sales leads effectively, Iridium
phone sets were sometimes unavailable when requested. Weak utility,
price, and cost positions, plus average adoption ability, indicated
that the Iridium idea would be a flop.
In contrast to these failures, consider NTT DoCoMo’s i-mode
launch in Japan. In 1999, when most telecom operators were focusing
on technology races and price competition over voice-based
wireless devices, NTT DoCoMo, the largest Japanese telecom operator,
launched i-mode to offer the Internet on cell phones. Regular
mobile telephony in Japan had reached a high level of sophistication
in terms of mobility, quality of voice, ease of use, and hardware
design. But it offered few data-based services such as e-mail,
access to information, news, and games, and transaction capabilities,
capabilities. While it focused on its traditional role as an operator
to develop and maintain a high-speed, high-capacity network in the
i-mode project, it sought to deliver other key elements of its offering
by actively partnering with handset manufacturers and information
providers.
By creating a win-win partnership network, the company aimed
to meet and sustain the target cost set by its strategic price. Although
there are many partners and dimensions involved in its
partnership network, a few aspects are particularly relevant here.
First, NTT DoCoMo regularly and persistently shared know-how
and technology with its handset manufacturing partners to help
them stay ahead of their competitors. Second, the company played
the role of the portal and gateway to the wireless network, expanding
and updating the list of i-mode menu sites while attracting content
providers to join the i-mode list and create the content that
would boost user traffic. By handling the billing for the content
providers with a small commission fee, for example, the company
offered content providers major cost savings associated with billing
system development. At the same time DoCoMo also obtained a
growing revenue stream for itself.
More importantly, instead of using the Wireless Markup Language
(WML) under the WAP standard for site creation, i-mode
used c-HTML, an existing and already widely used language in
Japan. This made i-mode more attractive to content providers because
under c-HTML, software engineers needed no retraining to
convert their existing Web sites, designed for the Internet environment,
into sites for i-mode use, and thus they incurred no additional
costs. NTT DoCoMo also entered into collaborative arrangements
with key foreign partners, such as Sun Microsystems, Microsoft,
and Symbian, to reduce the total development costs and shorten
the time for an effective launch.
Another key aspect of the i-mode strategy was the way the project
was carried out. A team specially dedicated to the project was set
142 F O R M U L AT I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
up and given a clear mandate and autonomy. The head of the i-mode
team selected most of the team members and engaged them in an open
discussion on how to create the new market of mobile data communications,
making them committed to the project. All this created a
favorable corporate environment for the adoption of i-mode. Moreover,
the win-win game the company created for its partners, as well
as the readiness of the Japanese general public to use database
services, also contributed to the successful adoption of i-mode.
The i-mode service passed all four criteria on the BOI index, as
shown earlier in figure 6-7. Indeed, i-mode turned out to be an explosive
success. Six months after its launch, subscribers had
reached the 1 million mark. Within two years, the number of subscribers
had reached 21.7 million, and revenues from packet transmission
alone had increased 130 times. By the end of 2003 the
number of subscribers had reached 40.1 million, and revenues from
the transmission of data, pictures, and text increased from 295 million
yen ($2.6 million) to 886.3 billion yen ($8 billion).
DoCoMo is the only company that has been able to make money
out of the mobile Internet. DoCoMo now exceeds its parent company,
NTT, in terms of market capitalization as well as potential for
profitable growth.
Although i-mode has been a huge success in Japan, its success
outside Japan hinges on whether it can overcome regional adoption
barriers of a regulatory, cultural, and emotional nature as
well as those stemming from partnership dynamics and infrastructure
economics.
Having passed the blue ocean idea index, companies are ready to
shift gears from the formulation side of blue ocean strategy to its
execution. The question is, How do you bring an organization with
you to execute this strategy even though it often represents a significant
departure from the past? This brings us to the second part
of this book, and the fifth principle of blue ocean strategy: overcoming
key organizational hurdles, the subject of our next chapter.
Get the Strategic Sequence Right 143

(
)
(
)
(
)
(
)
(
P A R T T H R E E
Executing Blue
Ocean Strategy

(
)
(
)
(
)
(
)
C H A P T E R 7
Overcome Key
Organizational Hurdles
ONCE A COMPANY HAS DEVELOPED a blue ocean
strategy with a profitable business model, it must execute
it. The challenge of execution exists, of course, for any strategy.
Companies, like individuals, often have a tough time translating
thought into action whether in red or blue oceans. But compared
with red ocean strategy, blue ocean strategy represents a significant
departure from the status quo. It hinges on a shift from convergence
to divergence in value curves at lower costs. That raises the
execution bar.
Managers have assured us that the challenge is steep. They face
four hurdles. One is cognitive: waking employees up to the need for
a strategic shift. Red oceans may not be the paths to future profitable
growth, but they feel comfortable to people and may have
even served an organization well until now, so why rock the boat?
The second hurdle is limited resources. The greater the shift in
strategy, the greater it is assumed are the resources needed to execute
it. But resources were being cut, and not raised, in many of the
organizations we studied.
Third is motivation. How do you motivate key players to move
fast and tenaciously to carry out a break from the status quo? That
will take years, and managers don’t have that kind of time.
The final hurdle is politics. As one manager put it, “In our organization
you get shot down before you stand up.”
Although all companies face different degrees of these hurdles,
and many may face only some subset of the four, knowing how to
triumph over them is key to attenuating organizational risk. This
brings us to the fifth principle of blue ocean strategy: Overcome key
organizational hurdles to make blue ocean strategy happen in action.
To achieve this effectively, however, companies must abandon
perceived wisdom on effecting change. Conventional wisdom asserts
that the greater the change, the greater the resources and
time you will need to bring about results. Instead, you need to flip
conventional wisdom on its head using what we call tipping point
leadership. Tipping point leadership allows you to overcome these
four hurdles fast and at low cost while winning employees’ backing
in executing a break from the status quo.
Tipping Point Leadership in Action
Consider the New York City Police Department (NYPD), which executed
a blue ocean strategy in the 1990s in the public sector. When
Bill Bratton was appointed police commissioner of New York City
in February 1994, the odds were stacked against him to an extent
few executives ever face. In the early 1990s, New York City was veering
toward anarchy. Murders were at an all-time high. Muggings,
Mafia hits, vigilantes, and armed robberies filled the daily headlines.
New Yorkers were under siege. But Bratton’s budget was
frozen. Indeed, after three decades of mounting crime in New York
City, many social scientists had concluded that it was impervious
to police intervention. The citizens of New York City were crying
out. A front-page headline in the New York Post had screamed:
“Dave do something!”—a direct call to then mayor David Dinkins
to get crime down fast.1 With miserable pay, dangerous working
148 E X E C U T I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
conditions, long hours, and little hope of advancement in a tenure
promotion system, morale among the NYPD’s thirty-six thousand
officers was at rock bottom—not to mention the debilitating effects
of budget cuts, dilapidated equipment, and corruption.
In business terms, the NYPD was a cash-strapped organization
with thirty-six thousand employees wedded to the status quo, unmotivated,
and underpaid; a disgruntled customer base—New York
City’s citizens; and rapidly declining performance as measured by
the increase in crime, fear, and disorder. Entrenched turf wars and
politics topped off the cake. In short, leading the NYPD to execute
a shift in strategy was a managerial nightmare far beyond the imaginations
of most executives. The competition—the criminals—was
strong and rising.
Yet in less than two years and without an increase in his budget,
Bratton turned New York City into the safest large city in the United
States. He broke out of the red ocean with a blue ocean policing
strategy that revolutionized U.S. policing as it was then known. Between
1994 and 1996, the organization won as “profits” jumped:
Felony crime fell 39 percent, murders 50 percent, and theft 35 percent.
“Customers” won: Gallup polls reported that public confidence
in the NYPD leaped from 37 percent to 73 percent. And employees
won: Internal surveys showed job satisfaction in the NYPD reaching
an all-time high. As one patrolman put it, “We would have
marched to hell and back for that guy.” Perhaps most impressively,
the changes have outlasted its leader, implying a fundamental shift
in the organizational culture and strategy of the NYPD. Even after
Bratton’s departure in 1996, crime rates have continued to fall.
Few corporate leaders face organizational hurdles as steep as
Bratton did in executing a break from the status quo. And still
fewer are able to orchestrate the type of performance leap that
Bratton achieved under any organizational conditions, let alone
those as stringent as he encountered. Even Jack Welch needed
some ten years and tens of millions of dollars of restructuring and
training to turn GE into a powerhouse.
Moreover, defying conventional wisdom, Bratton achieved these
breakthrough results in record time with scarce resources while
Overcome Key Organizational Hurdles 149
lifting employee morale, creating a win-win for all involved. Nor
was this Bratton’s first strategic reversal. It was his fifth, with each
of the others also achieved despite his facing all four hurdles that
managers consistently claim limit their ability to execute blue
ocean strategy: the cognitive hurdle that blinds employees from
seeing that radical change is necessary; the resource hurdle that is
endemic in firms; the motivational hurdle that discourages and demoralizes
staff; and the political hurdle of internal and external resistance
to change (see figure 7-1).
The Pivotal Lever: Disproportionate
Influence Factors
Tipping point leadership traces its roots to the field of epidemiology
and the theory of tipping points.2 It hinges on the insight that
150 E X E C U T I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
FIGURE 7-1
The Four Organizational Hurdles to Strategy Execution
Cognitive Hurdle
An organization
wedded to the
status quo
Motivational Hurdle
Unmotivated staff
Political Hurdle
Opposition from
powerful vested
interests
Resource Hurdle
Limited resources
in any organization, fundamental changes can happen quickly
when the beliefs and energies of a critical mass of people create an
epidemic movement toward an idea. Key to unlocking an epidemic
movement is concentration, not diffusion.
Tipping point leadership builds on the rarely exploited corporate
reality that in every organization, there are people, acts, and activities
that exercise a disproportionate influence on performance.
Hence, contrary to conventional wisdom, mounting a massive challenge
is not about putting forth an equally massive response where
performance gains are achieved by proportional investments in
time and resources. Rather, it is about conserving resources and
cutting time by focusing on identifying and then leveraging the factors
of disproportionate influence in an organization.
The key questions answered by tipping point leaders are as follows:
What factors or acts exercise a disproportionately positive influence
on breaking the status quo? On getting the maximum bang
out of each buck of resources? On motivating key players to aggressively
move forward with change? And on knocking down political
roadblocks that often trip up even the best strategies? By singlemindedly
focusing on points of disproportionate influence, tipping
point leaders can topple the four hurdles that limit execution of
blue ocean strategy. They can do this fast and at low cost.
Let us consider how you can leverage disproportionate influence
factors to tip all four hurdles to move from thought to action in the
execution of blue ocean strategy.
Break Through the Cognitive Hurdle
In many turnarounds and corporate transformations, the hardest
battle is simply to make people aware of the need for a strategic shift
and to agree on its causes. Most CEOs will try to make the case for
change simply by pointing to the numbers and insisting that the company
set and achieve better results: “There are only two performance
alternatives: to make the performance targets or to beat them.”
Overcome Key Organizational Hurdles 151
But as we all know, figures can be manipulated. Insisting on
stretch goals encourages abuse in the budgetary process. This, in
turn, creates hostility and suspicion between the various parts of
an organization. Even when the numbers are not manipulated, they
can mislead. Salespeople on commission, for example, are seldom
sensitive to the costs of the sales they produce.
What’s more, messages communicated through numbers seldom
stick with people. The case for change feels abstract and removed
from the sphere of the line managers, who are the very people the
CEO needs to win over. Those whose units are doing well feel that
the criticism is not directed at them; the problem is top management’s.
Meanwhile, managers of poorly performing units feel that
they are being put on notice, and people who are worried about personal
job security are more likely to scan the job market than to try
to solve the company’s problems.
Tipping point leadership does not rely on numbers to break
through the organization’s cognitive hurdle. To tip the cognitive
hurdle fast, tipping point leaders such as Bratton zoom in on the
act of disproportionate influence: making people see and experience
harsh reality firsthand. Research in neuroscience and cognitive
science shows that people remember and respond most
effectively to what they see and experience: “Seeing is believing.”
In the realm of experience, positive stimuli reinforce behavior,
whereas negative stimuli change attitudes and behavior. Simply
put, if a child puts a finger in icing and tastes it, the better it tastes
the more the child will taste it repetitively. No parental advice is
needed to encourage that behavior. Conversely, after a child puts a
finger on a burning stove, he or she will never do it again. After a
negative experience, children will change their behavior of their
own accord; again, no parental pestering is required.3 On the other
hand, experiences that don’t involve touching, seeing, or feeling actual
results, such as being presented with an abstract sheet of numbers,
are shown to be non-impactful and easily forgotten.4
Tipping point leadership builds on this insight to inspire a fast
change in mindset that is internally driven of people’s own accord.
152 E X E C U T I N G B L U E O C E A N S T R AT E G Y
Instead of relying on numbers to tip the cognitive hurdle, they
make people experience the need for change in two ways.
Ride the “Electric Sewer”
To break the status quo, employees must come face-to-face with the
worst operational problems. Don’t let top brass, middle brass, or any
brass hypothesize about reality. Numbers are disputable and uninspiring,
but coming face-to-face with poor performance is shocking
and inescapable, but actionable. This direct experience exercises a
disproportionate influence on tipping people’s cognitive hurdle fast.
Consider this example. In the 1990s the New York subway system
reeked of fear, so much so that it earned the epithet “electric
sewer.” Revenues were tumbling fast as citizens boycotted the system.
But members of the New York City Transit Police department
were in denial. Why? Only 3 percent of the city’s major crimes happened
on the subway. So no matter how much the public cried out,
their cries fell on deaf ears. There was no perceived need to rethink
police strategies.
Then Bratton was appointed chief, and in a matter of weeks he
orchestrated a complete break from the status quo in the mindset of
the city’s police. How? Not by force, nor by arguing for numbers,
but by making top brass and middle brass—starting with himself—
ride the electric sewer day and night. Until Bratton came along,
that had not been done.
Although the statistics may have told the police that the subway
was safe, what they now saw was what every New Yorker faced every
day: a subway system on the verge of anarchy. Gangs of youths patrolled
the cars, people jumped turnstiles, and the riders faced graffiti,
aggressive begging, and winos sprawled over benches. The
police could no longer evade the ugly truth. No one could argue
that current police strategies didn’t require a substantial departure
from the status quo—and fast.
Showing the worst reality to your superiors can also shift their
