Fish-Eating Spiders Are Everywhere
Scientists say they're not stunned by the fact that fish-eating spiders exist. What astounds them is how many spiders actually do it. Researchers unearthed 89 incidents of spiders eating fish in a new study. These incidents were documented in the U.S., South America and Australia, in addition to some in Africa, Asia and Europe.
Spiders that go fishing? They exist! And a new study finds they are more common than previously thought. More than a dozen spider species have been found that catch and eat fish, and they've been observed on every continent on the planet, except for Antarctica, according to a report published this week in PLOS One.
If this abundance of fish-eating spiders is kind of shocking to you, you are in good company. Even Martin Nyffeler of the University of Basel in Switzerland admitted to being surprised by the findings, and he has been studying spiders that eat things like earthworms and slugs for more than a decade. (Last year, he published a paper describing 50 incidents of spiders eating bats.)
It wasn't the fact that spiders eat fish that stunned Nyffeler, rather it was how many spiders actually do it.
"I was very surprised that fish-catching behavior is so widespread geographically and taxonomically across several spider families," he told the Los Angeles Times.
In this new study, Nyffeler and his colleague Bradley Pusey of the University of Western Australia scoured scientific journals and the Internet to find as many records of spiders attacking and devouring fish as they could. Through their research, they unearthed 89 incidents of spiders eating fish.
More than half of those incidents were documented in the United States. Most of them occurred in the South, especially the Southeast (think Florida), but there were eight examples recorded in California as well.
There were also several incidents reported in South America and Australia, but comparatively few in Africa, Asia and Europe.
The researchers discerned a few patterns about fish-eating spiders from their survey. Spiders that eat fish are semi-aquatic and are usually found on the shores of freshwater ponds, streams, rivers and bayous. They are all hunting spiders, which means they do not use a web to catch their prey.
Instead, these spiders sit on the top of the water, with their hind legs anchored to a stone or a plant. When a small fish swims to the surface -- either to find its own insect snack or to breathe in more oxygenated air -- the spider pounces, and injects the fish with venom, usually at the base of its head. Then it drags it away to a dry spot to be eaten.
The fish captured by the spiders are generally between 0.8 and 2 inches in length and, on average, 2.2 times bigger than the spider.
The bulk of these fish-eating spiders' diet is still made up of insects, the researchers report. Fish to these spiders is just an occasional food. They also note that spiders that eat fish appear to live only in warmer climates -- in places within 40 degrees north or south of the equator.
If you are wondering how a spider eats a fish that is more than twice its size, the answer is as fascinating as it is gross. Once it has dragged the fish to a dry spot, it pumps a digestive enzyme into its prey, and then sucks the dissolved tissue through its mouth opening.
Isn't nature amazing?
Dinosaur with wings on head found
Toronto: Here comes a new horned dinosaur and its cranial ornamentation is even more flowery than the three-horned dinosaur the world had earlier known, reveals a new study. The dinosaur possessed facial horns a giant winglike frill protruding from the back of the skull. PIC FOR 
REPRESENTATIONAL PURPOSE ONLY
A study of the recently discovered species, Mercuriceratops gemini, provides more details on this flashy dinosaur which possessed not only the standard trifecta of facial horns but also a giant, winglike frill protruding from the back of its skull.
The research is based on fossil evidence collected from Montana and Alberta, Canada.
“The butterfly shaped frill, or neck shield, of Mercuriceratops is unlike anything we have seen before,” said David Evans, curator of vertebrate paleontology at Royal Ontario Museum, Canada.
“Mercuriceratops shows that evolution gave rise to much greater variation in horned dinosaur headgear than we had previously suspected,” he added.
Google leads the charge to get girls into computer sciences
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CALIF. — Diana Navarro loves to code, and she’s not afraid to admit it. But the 18-year-old Rutgers University computer science major knows she’s an anomaly: Writing software to run computer programs in 2014 is – more than ever – a man’s world.
“We live in a culture where we’re dissuaded to do things that are technical,” Navarro said. “Younger girls see men, not women, doing all the techie stuff, programming and computer science.”
Less than 1 percent of high school girls think of computer science as part of their future, even though it’s one of the fastest-growing fields in the U.S. today with a projected 4.2 million jobs by 2020, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Last week Google, with a driverless car and Web-surfing eyeglasses under its belt, gave the Associated Press an early look at how it’s trying to change the gender disparity in its own workforce, and in the pipeline of potential workers, by launching a campaign Thursday called Made With Code.
The initiative begins with an introductory video of girls – silly, serious and brave – meeting President Barack Obama, painting over graffiti and goofing around. The narrator says: “You are a girl who understands bits exist to be assembled. When you learn to code, you can assemble anything that you see missing. And in so doing, you will fix something, or change something, or invent something, or run something, and maybe that’s how you will play your bit in this world.”
A website features female role-model techies who write software to design cool fabrics or choreograph dances. There are simple, fun coding lessons aimed at girls and a directory of coding programs for girls. The search giant is also offering $50 million in grants and partnering with Girls Who Code, a nonprofit launched in 2012 that runs summer coding institutes for girls, including the one that helped focus Navarro’s passion for technology.
A preview test run of Google’s online coding lessons last week was deemed “awesome” by Carmen Ramirez y Porter, 11.
“It’s not very complicated. It’s easy and fun and really cool to see how it turns out when you finish,” she said.
National Center for Women & Information Technology CEO Lucy Sanders, a leading advocate for women in computer sciences, sees the Made With Code initiative as a pivotal moment in what has been a long-term challenge of getting more girl geeks growing up in America.
“It used to be that as a computing community we didn’t really talk about gender issues. But now we’re really pulling together, from corporations and startups to nonprofits and universities,” Sanders said. “I’m very optimistic.”
There’s plenty of room for change.
Male dominated
Female participation in computer sciences has dropped to 18 percent, down from 37 percent in the 1980s, and only 7  percent of U.S. venture capital deals go to women founders and CEOs. Just 20 percent of the 30,000 students who took the Advanced Placement computer science test last year were girls, according to a College Board analysis, which showed no girls at all took the test in Mississippi, Montana or Wyoming.
YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki, one of the earliest Google employees, points to societal and economic drawbacks if women are not participating in the booming tech economy.
Also, she said, “I miss having more women counterparts.”
Tech firms are overwhelming male – Yahoo last week released a report showing 62 percent of its global employees are men. At Google, about 70 percent of the roughly 44,000 people it employs throughout the world are men. This year, the search giant commissioned a nationwide study to find out why so few women pursue technology careers, asking 1,600 people whether they were encouraged to study computer sciences and had opportunities to learn to code.
Their findings: Girls have little exposure to technology and computer sciences. That doesn’t mean they’re not interested, however. If parents, friends and teachers encourage their daughters to pursue computer sciences, schools offer more courses and more role models step forward, the field can be leveled.
But to capture girls, it’s got to be fun.
That was the plan for a Made With Code kickoff event in New York City held last week for 150 girls, where indie rockers Icona Pop performed and coders demoed how they make everything from animated movies to designer fabrics with software.
Need for mentors
Entrepreneur Dez White wasn’t necessarily pursuing a tech career when she asked a patron at her family’s restaurant to teach her to write software. She just had an idea for an app and wanted to make it.
“It was very hard for me to get my head around it,” White said. “I didn’t go to Stanford for code.”
Today, she hires coders for her firm Go INVIS, which sells privacy apps that allows users to send texts that self-destruct at a set time and emails that disappear from an inbox after they’re opened.
But in addition to her day job, as a successful female African-American entrepreneur, she realizes she needs to be a mentor as well.
“I think young women don’t even realize computer sciences are an option. It’s not laid out like nursing and social work,” she said.
Next year, she plans to organize a technology retreat for high school girls, and she tries to hire women for her growing company.
“It’s hard. We have to really look. Their numbers are very, very slim,” she said.
Study shows penguins are adapting to changing Antarctic environment
Emperor penguins have shown to be not as attached to their nesting locations as previously thought, meaning that they could adapt much easier to their changing environment, which is being affected by rising global temperatures.
A new study by the University of Minnesota has observed penguins’ movements over the nesting period and found a new colony on the Antarctic Peninsula, which is believed to have relocated.
Lead author of the study Michelle LaRue explained, “Our research showing that colonies seem to appear and disappear throughout the years challenges behaviours we thought we understood about emperor penguins.
“If we assume that these birds come back to the same locations every year, without fail, these new colonies we see on satellite images wouldn’t make any sense. These birds didn’t just appear out of thin air they had to have come from somewhere else. This suggests that emperor penguins move among colonies. That means we need to revisit how we interpret population changes and the causes of those changes.”
Emperor penguins are one of the species worst affected by melting ice, with separate research showingthey often have to climb up walls of ice 100ft high to reach new breeding grounds.
In Pointe Géologie in the Southern Ocean, a colony that also featured in the acclaimed 2005 documentary film March of the Penguins was believed to have declined by half, but the new study argues that instead the birds might have simply relocated.
LaRue added, “It’s possible that birds have moved away from Pointe Géologie to these other spots and that means that maybe those banded birds didn’t die.
“If we want to accurately conserve the species, we really need to know the basics. We’ve just learned something unexpected, and we should rethink how we interpret colony fluctuations.”
Climate change debate goes on
Scientists Continue To Debate The Truth Of Climate Change Across The Globe With Some Asking Whether It Is Actually Taking Place Or Not.
Skeptics still maintain that climate change is not a reality and it is only political lies.
The people, who are reluctant to accept the idea of climate change and global warming, mentioned about the National Climate Assessment (NCA) released recently by the US government stating about calamity concerns. 
The skeptics are still unwilling to add any value to decelerating trend in global surface temperature in the 2000s. Scientists across the globe are working overtime to find out the e main reason behind this phenomenon.
Experts mentioned about a recent article published in reputed science journal the Nature. This report was based on global warming pause. Experts maintained that global warming pause was considered to be responsible for rise in Asian pollution, volcanic activity and more effective oceanic heat absorption.
The data released by NASA and NOAA can also help a person to get a better understanding about pause in warming. Both these agencies have talked about the decrease in global surface temperature since 2000. Overall rise in temperature is +0.01C during the 2000s.
According to experts, the e current +.01C increase in temperatures is not enough to verify anything about climate change projections. "Recent observed global warming is significantly less than that simulated by climate models", said the article published in Nature.
Study finds oil from BP spill impedes fish's swimming
MIAMI -- In a lab on Virginia Key, a group of baby fish are being put through their paces on a tiny fish treadmill.
The inch-long mahi-mahi, being used as part of a study to assess damage caused by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill that spread crude across the Gulf of Mexico for 87 days in 2010, were exposed when they were embryos to oil collected during the cleanup. Now, at 25 days old, the oil is doing exactly what scientists suspected it would do: hamper the swimming of one of the ocean's fastest fish.
And significantly so. Young mahi usually swim at a rate of five body lengths per second. For perspective, imagine a six-foot man swimming
30 feet in a second. The fish, struggling against a current in a little tube attached to a propeller called a swim tunnel, can only muster three body lengths.
For a fish that needs speed to survive, this could mean bad news. Mahi, one of the most popular fish on menus, is already heavily fished. So losing a generation to an oil spill could take a toll. It also suggests that other fish suffered from the spill.
"Any life form is optimized compromise," Martin Grosell, one of the study's authors, said as a way of explaining physiology perfectly evolved to maximize speed. And if you mess with that treaty of parts, he said, "you're going to increase its vulnerability."
The treadmill study marks the second in recent months by the University of Miami Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science that has found that oil from the largest spill in U.S. history damages young pelagic fish, the large predators found in the open ocean. In March, UM researchers working with National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration scientists determined that the BP oil also damaged the hearts of tuna embryos, a condition that likely killed them in the wild.
Both studies -- disputed by BP -- are worrisome because tuna, whose numbers have dropped by as much as 75 percent in the last 40 years, and mahi began their spring spawning just as the spill occurred, sending fragile embryos across warm surface waters and into a patchwork of oil slicks that covered more than six square miles.
These newest findings, published in the journal Environmental Science & Technology, build on that earlier report by looking at fish as they age.
BP says the study is invalid because, according to the company, the tests used concentrations of oil not found in the Gulf during or after the spill. Researchers also failed to look at adult fish, spokesman Jason Ryan said in a statement.
"The tests only looked at impacts to fish under one year of age," he said. "Even if there had been an effect on a single-year class of such fish, the study does not provide any evidence to show that an effect on that group of fish would have had a population-level impact."
After the spill, NOAA began enlisting scientists to investigate the damage it caused -- so far, the studies range from the acoustic damage done to endangered sperm whales to oil in fiddler crabs. For pelagic fish, which are particularly sensitive to changes in their near-constant deep-water environment, scientists want to know how much oil it takes to affect the fish and what those effects are.
To test the mahi, researcher Ed Mager first mixed oil from the spill and seawater in a Waring blender at concentrations replicating the spill. He exposed one group of embryos to the mix for two days and then raised them in clean seawater. Another group was raised in clean water and exposed to oil when they reached about 25 days.
Mager also wanted to ensure that no other factors stressed their performance. Like all babies, the mahi startle easily. So he wrapped the treadmill -- a clear, four-inch swim tunnel outfitted with a propeller and immersed in a two-foot tank -- in black plastic. Mager, who studied deadly respiratory viruses in premature human babies before he switched to fish, then curtained off the area and monitored his little subjects with a video camera.
Mahi are carnivores and foragers, so they swim fast. But when he turned on the treadmill, Mager was surprised to see that the outwardly healthy fish swam much slower. The ones exposed as embryos swam 37 percent slower. Those exposed as juveniles dropped 22 percent.
Because they are so sensitive to change, pelagic fish -- and particularly fragile embryos and juveniles -- can act as a kind of canary in a coal mine. So the information that Mager and the team have collected for the study, one of several ongoing at the school, will be fed to modelers to determine a more expansive view of the ecosystem after the spill and help figure out the limits for how much oil it can tolerate before damage happens.
"We'll be a little closer to knowing what to look for and how bad when, I cynically say, the next spill happens. Because it will," Grosell said.
Federal officials coming to the rescue of bees
WASHINGTON — The White House and federal officials are coming to the rescue of the lowly honeybee, pumping money and extra resources in an attempt to avert continued, major losses among the nation’s buzzing pollinators.
Citing population declines in the pollinators that help sustain many of the nation’s crops, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced on Friday conservation incentives for farmers and ranchers in five states – Michigan, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wisconsin – who establish new habitats for declining honeybee populations. More than half of the commercially managed honeybees are in those five states during the summer, the department said.
“American agricultural production relies on having a healthy honeybee population,” USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack said in announcing the program.
The department says that more than $15 billion worth of agricultural products – including more than 130 fruits and vegetables – depend on the services of bees for pollination. In California, for example, almonds are almost exclusively pollinated by honeybees, and the state’s industry, which is responsible for 80 percent of global almond production, requires the pollination services of about 1.4 million beehives annually.
But the population of those insects has plummeted in recent decades. The number of managed honeybee colonies in the United States has declined from 6 million colonies – beehives – in 1947 to 2.5 million today. Since 2006, commercial beekeepers in the United States have seen honeybee colony losses over the winter months that are far higher than historic rates.
The reasons, however, are something of a mystery. According to federal officials, it’s due in part to the loss of natural forage, mite infestations and diseases, and exposure to certain pesticides. What’s known as “colony collapse disorder” results in a rapid, unexpected and catastrophic loss of bees in a hive.
According to the Department of Agriculture, honeybees are not native to the continent but came with European settlers. The losses of recent years are unusual and worrisome, but similar events have occurred before.
At the turn of last century in a region of Utah, for example, 2,000 colonies were lost to an unknown “disappearing disease” after a “hard winter and a cold spring,” according to the department. In the mid-1990s, Pennsylvania beekeepers lost 53 percent of their colonies without a specific identifiable cause.
To help avert continued declines, the White House and the USDA also established a “Pollinator Health Task Force,” led by Agriculture Department and Environmental Protection Agency officials. The group will research the problem and within six months develop a “National Pollinator Health Strategy.”
The other steps announced by the department Friday include a beefed-up conservation program that allows for managing or replacing existing vegetation to provide honeybees more blooms from which to collect nectar and pollen as they go about their pollination chores.
Maine enacts shellfish closures along most of coast to test for red tide
ELLSWORTH, Maine — In an effort to prioritize the state’s red tide testing program, Maine fishery officials have prohibited harvesting mussels and European oysters along most of the coast between New Hampshire and Canada.
The widespread closure does not reflect a large outbreak of red tide, also known as paralytic shellfish poisoning, according to Kohl Kanwit, director of public health for Maine Department of Marine Resources. Kanwit said Friday evening the state has closed most of the coast to mussel and European oyster harvesting so it can focus its efforts on testing clams.
There is no ban on the harvesting of American oysters, which are the predominant species cultivated by oyster aquaculture growers in Maine, she said.
Kanwit said there are several reasons for the change in the testing program.Widespread outbreaks of red tide along Maine’s coast in 2008 resulted in the state receiving federal relief funds to test for the naturally occurring toxin. That money ran out last year, she said, which has forced DMR to reconsider how to allocate its red tide testing funds.
Maine’s annual softshell clam harvest is several times more valuable than its mussel landings — $16.9 million versus $2.3 million in 2013 — so DMR decided it would be more cost effective to focus the department’s limited testing resources on clams, she said. Because red tide contamination fluctuates more wildly with mussels than with other species, testing mussels can use up more time and energy than testing other species, she added.
Kanwit said the department plans to test all commercially grown mussels, so aquaculture firms can continue operating as usual. Some areas, such as most of inner Penobscot Bay, remain open to mussel harvesting, so people who harvest wild mussels commercially or recreationally will have places they can go.
There are closures for other shellfish species. West of Stonington, areas that are closed to mussel and European oyster harvesting are closed to the harvesting of surf or hen clams and carnivorous snails. She said all the closures for mussels, European oysters, surf or hen clams and carnivorous snails are expected to remain in effect through the end of August.
Along most of the southwest coast, from the Piscataqua River to West Cundy Point in Harpswell, clam harvesting has been banned because of a routine seasonal outbreak of red tide, Kanwit said. Some productive areas in the region remain open to clam harvesting and are being regularly tested so commercial clammers can continue working, she added.
“It’s impacting very, very little,” Kanwit said of the economic impact of the clam closure.
Californian Tricolored Blackbird on Downward Spiral
Populations of the tricolored blackbird found in California continue to plunge, now numbering about a mere 145,000 in the state, a survey released Wednesday shows. (Photo : Flickr)
Populations of the tricolored blackbird found in California continue to plunge, now numbering about a mere 145,000 in the state, a survey released Wednesday shows.
Over the last several years, this species, mostly found in California's Central Valley, has been in a statewide downward spiral as a result of farming, and scientists worry that this year's drought will only exacerbate the situation.
"The tricolored blackbird population is not a stable one. It is rapidly declining," Bob Meese, avian ecologist with the UC Davis Department of Environmental Science and Policy, told the Sacramento Bee.
Meese conducted the survey with Audubon California, the US Fish and Wildlife Service and the California Department of Fish and Wildlife.
According to their survey, the tricolored blackbird population has plunged 44 percent since 2011, from 260,000 to 145,000 birds.
Declines are being seen throughout the San Joaquin and Sacramento valleys, and as far south as Riverside County. Meese and fellow researchers, as Californians, see it as their job to protect this imperiled animal.
"It's our responsibility because it's our bird," he said, according to theAssociated Press (AP). "We're going to have to take an all-hands-on-deck approach."
Californian blackbirds - distinguished by red feathers in thier shoulder patch, with a bright white stripe - used to number in the millions. But due to harvesting of feed crops on dairy farms where these birds have come to nest, scientists worry that they are becoming endangered, according to the Sacramento Bee. Even worse, they fear that they will share the same fate as two other colonial bird species - the extinct passenger pigeon, which researchers are currently working to revive, and the Carolina parakeet.
And this survey, researchers note, does not accurately reflect how much the current drought is affecting the tricolored blackbird, which historically nested in wetlands, the AP reported.
Meese is currently working with landowners in Yolo and Yuba counties to provide habitat for the birds. He is also in talks with the University of California, Merced, to provide a nesting reserve for them at the Central California campus.
First Case of Chikungunya Confirmed in NC
North Carolina's first case of chikungunya was confirmed in a resident who recently travelled to the Caribbean. Chikungunya virus is transmitted through the bite of an infected mosquito, and the Asian Tiger mosquito that is commonly found in North Carolina could effectively transmit this virus. At this time, there have not been any cases of the disease known to have been acquired in North Carolina or the continental United States.
Symptoms of chikungunya usually begin three to seven days after being bitten by an infected mosquito. Symptoms typically include the sudden onset of fever and severe, often disabling, joint pains in the hands and feet. Many patients feel better within a week; however, the joint pain may persist for months in some people. Newborns exposed during delivery, adults over 65 years and people with chronic medical conditions have a greater risk for a severe form of the disease.
Prior to its introduction in the Caribbean, chikungunya was established in East Africa, India, the Indian Ocean and the Western Pacific regions. It was introduced in the Caribbean in December 2013 through travelers returning from affected areas. As of June 6, chikungunya has caused illness in over 130,000 persons in the Caribbean.
North Carolina’s first case of chikungunya was confirmed in a resident who recently travelled to the Caribbean in  June 2014, thought it has been determined that there is a low risk of transmission of chikungunya to the local mosquito population. A probable case had been reported in 2013 after returning from India.  
There is currently no evidence that any mosquitoes in North Carolina carry the chikungunya virus. There is also no current evidence that any mosquito carrying chikungunya virus is present in the continental United States.
DHHS' Division of Public Health advises persons traveling to countries where chikungunya transmission is occurring to:
Take personal precautions to prevent mosquito bites; and
Immediately consult a medical provider if they develop fever in the two weeks after their return home.
There is no vaccine to prevent chikungunya. 
Symptoms:
Most people infected with chikungunya virus will develop some symptoms.
Symptoms usually begin 3–7 days after being bitten by an infected mosquito.
The most common symptoms are fever and joint pain.
Other symptoms may include headache, muscle pain, joint swelling, or rash.
Chikungunya disease does not often result in death, but the symptoms can be severe and disabling.
Most patients feel better within a week. In some people, the joint pain may persist for months.
People at risk for more severe disease include newborns infected around the time of birth, older adults (=65 years), and people with medical conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes, or heart disease.
Once a person has been infected, he or she is likely to be protected from future infections.
Diagnosis:
The symptoms of chikungunya are similar to those of dengue, another disease spread by mosquitoes.
See your doctor if you develop the symptoms described above.
If you have recently traveled, tell your doctor.
Your doctor may order blood tests to look for chikungunya or other similar diseases.
Treatment:
There is no medicine to treat chikungunya virus infection or disease.
Decrease the symptoms:
Get plenty of rest
Drink fluids to prevent dehydration
Take medicines, such as ibuprofen, naproxen, acetaminophen, or paracetamol, to relieve fever and pain.
"With North Carolina residents traveling to and from the Caribbean and other affected areas, we have been monitoring for possible imported cases," said Dr. Megan Davies, DHHS' State Epidemiologist. "Anyone experiencing symptoms of chikungunya should contact a physician and minimize exposure to mosquitoes to reduce the risk of transmitting the virus to others. Travelers who visit countries where chikungunya is widespread should take extra precaution against mosquito bites."
To protect yourself and your family against mosquito bites:
Wear light-colored long pants and long-sleeved shirts.
Reduce time spent outdoors, particularly during early morning and early evening hours when mosquitoes are most active.
Apply EPA-approved mosquito repellents such as DEET, picardin, oil of lemon eucalyptus or IR3535 to exposed skin areas.
Always follow guidelines when using mosquito repellent.
Since mosquitoes may bite through thin clothing, spray clothes with repellent containing permethrin or another EPA-registered repellent will give extra protection.
DHHS' Division of Public Health strongly recommends that all North Carolina residents take measures to decrease environmental conditions favorable to breeding for the species that could transmit this infection, the Asian Tiger mosquito. This mosquito is an aggressive daytime biter, breeds in small water containers and does not travel long distances. To reduce mosquito breeding areas around your home:
Remove any containers that can hold water;
Change the water in bird baths and pet bowls frequently and repair leaky outdoor faucets;
Cover rain barrels with tight-fitting screens or lids;
Keep gutters clean and in good repair; and
Use screened windows and doors and make sure screens are not torn and fit tightly.
