After receiving her instructions, Annette grabbed Suzette’s hand once again and led her out
the door. Suzette pulled hard to release her grip. It was obvious the new hire was a tad bit
cranky.
“I can follow you without being dragged,” she huffed. Angry over Annette’s physical
treatment, Suzette wasn’t about to let anyone else tell her what she should or should not do,
especially after the blackmail session that had occurred a few minutes earlier.
Annette glared at her in return. “Fine with me.” She walked through the foyer and invited
Suzette to follow her up the grand staircase. “Come this way, and I’ll show you what’s
upstairs.”
Suzette placed her hand upon the curved cherry-wood banister and stepped on the pathway,
whose center was covered with plush red carpet. Artwork of nude women lined the walls,
strategically placed as a tantalizing foretaste of what lay ahead. Suzette cringed over the
provocative scenes.
Once on the second floor, Annette stopped. “Nadine is supposed to give you the grand tour
when you get back from the Bureau, so just follow me down the hallway to your quarters.”
Suzette stood in the middle of a long hallway that stretched to the right and left of the
staircase. As they began to walk, they passed multiple closed doors. Suzette only speculated
briefly about what lay behind them.
It seemed as if everyone in the brothel knew that Suzette would succumb to Madame
Laurent’s invitation. Annette led her to a bath chamber, where she had instructed their
housekeeper to fill the tub with warm water.
“Strip and get in, sweetie.”
Suzette protested. “What, in front of you?”
“Yes.”
“Well, I don’t see the purpose,” Suzette argued. “I can very well bathe myself.”
“Can you? You can’t reach your back. You stink like hell, and your hair looks like a bird’s
nest. Someone needs to scrub that scalp of yours.” She reached for Suzette’s head and began
separating the matted strands. “There better not be any lice in there,” she said, scrunching her
noise.
“I don’t have lice,” she said, slapping away her hand.
The fiery redhead stepped back and put her hands on her hips, giving Suzette a dare-or-die
glare. She could see the woman meant business, so she gave into her request and began
unbuttoning her dress. It was filthy, and she did stink. There was no doubt about it. The steam
rising from the warm bath looked inviting, but stripping in front of another person mortified
Suzette.
After the last button, she let the dress fall around her feet and kicked it toward the wall. She
took off her dirty chemise and bloomers, and then tossed them on top of the dress. A blush
rushed up her neck as she stood totally naked in front of Annette. With one leg, she quickly
stepped into the tub, brought the other around, and settled down into the warm water. Just when
she relaxed, a bar of soap hit the surface, and bathwater splashed in her face.
“You’ll like the soap. It’s scented. Madame Laurent buys the best of toiletries for us.”
Suzette’s hand reached toward the bottom of the tub and grabbed the silky bar beneath the
water. She brought it to her face. The fragrance greeted her nostrils, and she couldn’t help but
sniff it repeatedly.
“It’s nice,” she admitted. “It smells like lavender.”
Annette pulled up a chair alongside the claw-footed tub and sat next to Suzette. “Yes, it is
lavender. We have all sorts of scented soaps, bath oils—anything a girl could want to make
herself pretty.”
Suzette took the bar and began to form suds in her hand to wash her body. When she
finished, Annette dumped a bucket of fresh water on her head and added unique herbs,
fragrance, and soap shavings to lather through her auburn tresses that were tangled and frayed.
“My God,” Suzette screamed in protest as the water hit her head and flowed into her eyes
and mouth. “You could have warned me.”
Suzette began to wonder if she would ever meet another woman with manners. Everyone
was out to hurt her, from the roommates at the Daughters of Charity to the brothel. They were
all biting flies she wanted to swat.
“I cannot understand what is with some of you women,” she protested as Annette’s fingers
roughly scrubbed her head.
“What are you complaining about?” she asked working the soap through Suzette’s hair.
“You need to toughen up, or you will not make it in the world alone. Believe me, I know.”
Suzette closed her eyes to the sting of suds and stopped struggling with the inevitable. The
woman was not going to leave her alone until she finished clawing the daylights out of her. The
fragrant scent of lavender brought some comfort, which made her feel pretty after months of
smelling awful and looking ugly.
“There. That should do it. Close your eyes.”
Annette poured another bucket of water over Suzette’s head, slower this time, rubbing the
soap residue from her hair until it squeaked between her fingers. Suzette kept her eyes and
mouth closed until the ordeal ended.
When she finished, Annette rose, grabbed a large, fluffy white towel, and handed it to
Suzette.
“Probably looks familiar, huh? From the washhouse.”
She took the towel in her hands and stepped out of the tub. Suzette patted her hair, taking
the moisture from her locks, and then turned to dry her body. When she was finished, she
quickly wrapped the towel to cover her nakedness.
“Satisfied?”
Annette smiled. “Not quite,” she announced smugly, leading her out of the bath chamber
and back into her room. When they entered, Suzette saw Nadine propped up in her bed reading
a book.
“Ah, the mouse has bathed I see,” she drawled.
“Yes, but I’m not done yet,” announced Annette.
She led Suzette to the vanity where she sat down. Annette picked up a brush to work the
tangles from her hair.
“Ouch!” Suzette screamed, protesting her rough pulling of her wet locks.
“You know, your hair is quite pretty. I love auburn with a tint of red. We have all kinds
here, as you can see. I’m the fiery redhead. Nadine over there is the blond of them all! The
darkies from Africa and the Orient, their hair is black as the midnight skies.”
“How many?”
“How many what?”
“How many girls does Madame Laurent have here?”
“Thirty,” quipped Nadine. “Thirty whores and thirty rooms.” She laughed. “You’re number
thirty!”
Suzette glared back at Nadine’s reflection in the mirror, convinced she would never like
her. In fact, she wondered if she would ever like any of them. They were no better than the
hardened women of the washhouse. They only dressed better, smelled nicer, and drank more
expensive alcohol.
With the final stroke of the brush, Annette pulled her hair behind her head and fastened it
with a ribbon.
“There,” she said, looking proudly at her creation, “It should be dry by the time we get to
the Bureau.”
“Mind if we borrow some undergarments?” she asked, walking over to a chest of drawers.
Nadine raised her brow in protest but then relented. “Sure.”
Annette pulled open her drawer and chose a few items, along with stockings. She then
walked to the closet and rummaged through dresses.
“Here, try this one. Madame Laurent will give you an advance, and you can buy some new
clothes. For today, wear this dress.” She laid the undergarments and dress on her bed, and
turned to leave the room. “I’ll go get ready and meet you downstairs in fifteen minutes.”
Suzette looked over at Nadine, who was staring at her wrapped in a towel. She wanted to
get dressed in her room, not on the wet floor of the bath chamber.
“Would you mind not watching me,” Suzette implored.
“God, you’re pathetic.” She swung her feet around the edge of the bed, stood up, and
headed for the door. “You better get used to bearing everything.”
After the door opened and slammed shut, Suzette mumbled, “Good riddance,” and dropped
the towel. She was determined to hold onto her last shred of dignity as long as possible.
* * *
The carriage pulled up to the Bureau des Mouers located near the Prefecture of Police in
the Île de la Cité. Suzette stepped out with Annette by her side and looked at the stark stone
building looming upward.
Annette knew exactly where to go and what procedures needed to be followed. It was her
responsibility to bring new hires for registration. She looked at Suzette and saw the uneasiness
across her face.
“This is how it is, dearie. You’ll be interviewed first by one of the brothel inspectors. He’ll
ask you questions, but I cannot accompany you during that process. It’s no big deal,” she
sighed. “The usual stuff—mother, father, where you live, and so on.”
Suzette nodded and willingly allowed Annette to take her hand as she led her up the steps.
“Come on. Let’s get on with it.”
Once through the double doors, they stood in a foyer, and Annette stopped to give Suzette
instructions before approaching the counter.
“They’ll ask you why you want to be a prostitute, so come up with something good. We
don’t want you getting rejected, now do we?”
Annette watched Suzette’s frightened eyes widen. “After you answer all the questions, he’ll
give you a card to read with the restrictions, some of which are totally ludicrous, but we have to
promise to be good little girls, or we’ll visit the local jail.”
Suzette felt like turning around and running out the door. The next bit of news nearly
caused her to faint, while Annette, on the other hand, appeared to enjoy giving her the priceless
details.
“After that comes the fun part. You’ll have to go to the Bureau of Sanitaire for an
examination by a doctor.” She leaned into Suzette’s ear and whispered. “He has to check your
private parts to make sure you don’t have diseases and such.”
Suzette pulled away from her in shock. “You can’t be serious?”
“What?” Annette laughed. “Never had a man look at you down there?” she teased, lowering
her eyes to her pelvis area. “Every fifteen days, he comes to the brothel to take a peek at you.
You better get used to it.” She reached out her hand and playfully tickled her waist.
Suzette pulled back, appalled. “I can’t do this,” she pleaded, turning away toward the door.
“Why doesn’t she just let me work as a housemaid or something?”
Annette grabbed Suzette’s wrist to stop her from leaving. “Because, honey, you’re a pretty
one, that’s why. She’ll make money off you, and even more opening night, if you get my drift.”
Annette winked.
Suzette didn’t quite understand her meaning at first, but then it became all too clear as they
proceeded down the hallway to the counter. Madame Laurent was going to sell her virginity for
a high price.
“She’s here to register,” Annette blurted out at the officer behind the desk. “You know
what kind I mean, don’t you sweetheart,” she said, dripping seduction off her lips, leaning her
elbows on the counter, and batting her eyelashes flirtatiously. The officer lifted his gaze and
smiled, recognizing Annette.
“A new one, eh?” He looked at Suzette, enjoying the vision. “Have a seat then over there.”
The officer pointed to a row of chairs alongside the wall. “One of the inspectors will call you in
a minute.”
Annette grabbed Suzette’s arm again and led her over to a chair to sit down. Suzette
fidgeted the whole time, while Annette hummed an Irish tune underneath her breath, low and
soft. A few minutes later, a man dressed in a blue police uniform walked out and handed a
bundle of paperwork to the clerk behind the desk. He picked up a clipboard, turned his head,
and glanced over at them.
“Both of you or just one?”
“Just her,” Annette quipped, pointing her finger. “I already got my card! She took her card
out of her pocketbook and waved it at the inspector like a flag. “See, dearie! Carrying it like a
good little girl, I am.”
He scowled at Annette and growled at Suzette. “Come with me.”
Suzette stood up and followed nervously behind him until they came into an office. He
closed the door and motioned for her to sit in a chair before his desk. She did, and then looked
at the inspector, eyeing his appearance.
The officer looked cantankerous as he fiddled with papers. Suzette concluded he was
middle-aged due to his graying temples. His potbelly rested on top of his trouser belt, but his
uniform was clean and pressed. A mustache decorated his upper lip and curled at the ends,
meeting his long burly sideburns. On his lapel, he wore a silver badge with large engraved
letters, M. DUBOIS, BROTHEL INSPECTOR.
“Just have to ask you the usual questions,” he announced, breaking the silence between
them.
Suzette met his eyes, and she was thankful he had softened his harsh tone. The first
question of many spewed out of his mouth while Suzette’s palms rested upon her bobbing
knees.
“Name?”
Suzette was momentarily distracted by the office interior and didn’t answer. The inspector
bellowed to regain her attention.
“Name, I said!”
“Excuse me, monsieur.” She focused and swallowed the lump in her throat. “It’s Suzette
Camille Rousseau.” She tilted her head as she watched the inspector dip his quill into the
inkwell and then write her name across the paper form.
“Age?”
“Eighteen.”
“Place of birth?” He paused for a moment and then cursed. “Damn this pen.” Clearly
irritated, he tapped the end into the inkwell once again, not raising his head in Suzette’s
direction. He cleared his throat, indicating he was waiting once more for her to answer his
question.
“Paris. I was born in Paris,” she blurted.
“Are you married, widowed, or celibate?”
“I’m single,” she answered, thinking it an odd sort of question, convinced a married woman
would never prostitute her body.
He lifted his eyes and reiterated, “Are you celibate?”
“I’m chaste, if that’s what you mean,” she responded tersely.
“Are your parents living?”
“They are dead.”
He blinked, and then raised his head to look at her. “Pardon me, mademoiselle. I am sorry.”
He continued in a business-like tone. “What was your deceased father’s occupation?”
“He was a professor at the University of Paris.”
“Do you have any children?”
“No.” She mused over the absurd question. Does he think I’m like the Virgin Mary or
something, able to conceive in a chaste state? The suggestion, on the other hand, reminded her
of the distinct possibility that her new occupation could result in that awful consequence.
Ignorant of any means of birth control, she feared the possibility. What will happen then? Will
Madame Laurent kick me out on the street anyway? Her anxious thoughts were interrupted by
another question.
“How long have you lived in Paris?”
“I was born here, remember?” The irritated tone of her voice caused the inspector to lift his
brow and glance at Suzette with a warning gaze.
“I’ve lived here all my life,” she said softly.
“Have you ever been arrested?”
“No, Inspector, I have not.”
“Have you ever practiced prostitution anywhere else?”
Silly damn questions, she thought to herself. She had just answered his question about
never having been with a man. “I think I answered that earlier.”
“Hum, that’s right—chaste.” He cleared his voice for the next question and looked directly
into Suzette’s eyes.
“I apologize for the inconvenient question, but I must ask you the following. Do you have
any venereal diseases?”
“I think you already know the answer to that one too. No.” Suzette tried to be patient, but
the questions were insulting and funny at the same time. A nervous giggle escaped her lips,
thinking this entire process a sham.
The inspector raised a brow over his applicant’s reaction. “Is there something funny?”
“No, monsieur,” she replied, quickly wiping the silly grin from her face. “Nervous...I’m
just nervous.”
“All right then.” He dipped the pen in the inkwell once again for a fresh flow. “Education?”
“Yes, I have finished school. My father educated me well.” For some reason, Suzanne felt
compelled to emphasize her intelligence, trying to find an ounce of dignity in the moment.
“Final question.” The inspector laid down his pen and clasped his hands together, resting
them upon the desktop. “Tell me, mademoiselle, what is your reason for registering as a
prostitute? Since you claim you are still a virgin, perhaps I should direct you to a religious
institution to, shall we say, convert your thought processes. However, you seem intent to pursue
this course of action.”
Suzette thought for a moment. This was the question Annette warned her about, and she
needed a convincing answer. What if she told him that she had been blackmailed into joining
the brothel? Perhaps squealing that Madame Laurent was forcing her to be a whore would get
her out of the situation. However, when she remembered all the threats she was sure to carry
out, Suzette feared the repercussions that awaited her for making such an accusation. If she did,
she would be back on the streets, perhaps spending the night on a park bench or sidewalk or
door stoop in some alley. Madame Laurent’s words echoed in her mind telling her of the
consequences.
“You’ll no doubt be raped within a w eek because you’ll have no one to protect you, diseased
within a month, and dead within three.”
“I’m hungry,” she blurted out in a shaky voice. “I am also homeless, penniless, and alone.
I have been offered a job that provides food and housing. Is that reason enough?”
The inspector picked up his pen, jotted down a few lines, and said nothing further. Suzette
wondered what he was thinking, but his face expressed no empathy, only indifference. No
doubt, in his mind, she was just another throwaway like the hundreds of other girls who
probably sat in the same chair. The only thing left of value in her life was her body.
“All right, here is your registration card. Please take this back to Madame Laurent as proof
of your compliance with the law.”
He handed the card to Suzette. “A few more matters before you leave. There are the rules
for prostitutes in Paris.”
The inspector continued in what sounded to Suzette like a rehearsed speech. He droned on
about the rules of her trade and instructed her in one last act.
“I am required to have you read the regulations to me aloud before you depart, in case you
have any questions. It’s imperative as a prostitute that you are fully aware of the law and
consequences of disobedience.”
Suzette looked at the small card and turned it over in her hand. Like a student reciting her
lessons to her teacher, she began reading her obligations as a prostitute. Stopping for a moment,
she glanced up to see the inspector’s eyes intently watching her performance. Suzette continued
reading the regulations. The rules were onerous. She must carry the card at all times, was
forbidden to practice on the streets, and must dress modestly without bright colors. The lengthy
directives read like orders to a criminal who was being locked up in a prison. There were
regulations where she could stand, where she could walk, and how to look out a window. When
she was finished with the recitation, she wanted to burst out laughing. Finally, she came to the
end and looked at the inspector.
“Well, do you have any questions?”
“No, sir.”
“I hope you sense the severity of disobeying the law. I would hate for our next meeting to
find you behind bars, oui?”
Frightened, she hoped to God that she could remember all the rules. “No, monsieur, I do
not wish to see you again either, I assure you.”
“Next, you must go to the Bureau of Sanitaire to be medically examined,” he announced.
“When the physician has declared you free of disease, you are free to return to Madame Laurent
and report for work. Every fifteen days, you must submit to a physical examination at the
brothel whenever the physician arrives. Do you understand?”
“Yes.”
Embarrassed and humiliated, Suzette stood up, curtsied in respect, and walked out of the
office back to the lobby. She tucked her registration card into the bottom of her purse. Annette
rose from the chair and came to Suzette’s side.
“Makes you feel like trash. I know.”
“I hate Madame Laurent,” she spat.
“You just don’t get it, do you? She’s saving your life, yet you hate her?”
She took Suzette’s hand. “Come on. The Bureau of Sanitaire is just around the corner. Now
you can enjoy the next round of business.”
* * *
When the last moment of eternal embarrassment concluded, Suzette pulled up the sheet
over her naked body, suppressing her tears in front of the physician. She sat on the edge of the
examination table. There were no words to describe the humiliation burning through her veins
as the doctor fingered her intimately during the examination.
A dreadful acceptance of her fate sickened her soul. Afterward, she watched the physician
write notes on a piece of paper, while she waited for further direction. The room was silent
except for Suzette’s whimpering. When he finished, he folded the document, slipped it in an
envelope, and handed it to Suzette.
“I see you are a virgin,” he said, with a raised brow. “Make sure you do not skip the regular
examinations like some girls do. Madame Laurent’s establishment is relatively clean, but the
clientele is not always guaranteed to be disease-free.” He stood up and headed for the door.
“You may dress,” he instructed but hesitated to leave. “Has anyone spoken to you about birth
control, mademoiselle?”
“No, doctor, I have no idea what to do or if anything can be done.”
“Well, there are methods the girls at the brothel will no doubt talk to you about. I suggest
you have a heart-to-heart talk with another woman in the same profession about such matters.”
“All right. I will.”
Suzette watched the physician leave the room and close the door behind him. As soon as
the latch clicked, Suzette burst into tears. A moment later, someone knocked. She tried to
control her emotions as the door opened. It was Annette. Suzette slid off the examining table
with the sheet wrapped around her shaking body.
“You survived, I see. You’ll get used to it.”
For the first time, she saw a glimpse of sympathy on Annette’s face, and Suzette took the
morsel offered.
“It was horrid.”
“Come on now, get dressed. You’ll feel better.”
Whatever virtue she possessed died at the hands of the doctor. Suzette dropped the sheet
baring her naked body before Annette. When she finished dressing, Annette escorted her
outside, waving down a carriage for their trip back to the brothel.
“Come on, we need to get back. We have business to attend to before seven. Besides, I’m
hungry.”
Chapter Nine
Suzette, upon her return, was told to proceed to Madame Laurent’s office. She rapped
softly on the door until she heard the cold and unyielding voice bid her entrance. She
approached the desk with envelope in hand and stood tall waiting to be told what to do. Suzette
glared at her employer feeling no endearment for her whatsoever.
“Give me the report,” she demanded.
Suzette handed over the documents angry over the smirk of triumph written across Madame
Laurent’s face. She motioned for her to have a seat, but Suzette didn’t budge.
“Relax, Suzette! It will be quite all right. You worry far too much about this entire matter.
Now sit!”
She plopped herself in the chair and watched Madame Laurent open the envelope. After
pulling out the papers, she read the contents.
“God, Bureau des Mouers is such a waste. I wish they’d shut the wretched office down.”
She placed the certificate of approval in a stack of papers on the left of her desk and then
glanced at the doctor’s notes. “I see you have passed your medical examination,” she noted.
“My God, you are a virgin!”
“Did you think I was lying?” replied Suzette indignantly.
“Perhaps,” she said, scanning over the doctor’s report. “Most Parisian girls are quite eager
to lose their virginity as soon as possible. Frankly, I find it amusing that you have not.” She
lifted her eyes to Suzette. “So, did the good inspector try to talk you out of it or suggest referral
to a religious institution?”
“He mentioned a religious institution, yes.”
“Which inspector interviewed you, might I ask?
“Inspector Dubois.”
“Ah, he’s one of the better ones. A little more, shall we say, polite during his interrogation
than some others.”
“So, what is to happen with me next?” Suzette asked, curious to know when she’d be
thrown to the wolves.
Amused over her question, Madame Laurent leaned back in her red leather chair and
studied Suzette like a piece of merchandise. “Well, to be quite honest, Suzette, you’re not
exactly what I would term saleable at the moment. Your hair and the condition of your skin are
atrocious and will need to be taken care of before I let any of my patrons touch you.”
She picked up her quill and started to jot down a few words on a piece of paper. Suzette
strained her eyes to see what it was, but couldn’t tell.
“I have plans for you already. You might be surprised to know that you’re a commodity
that I must sell to the highest bidder. Virgins bring a pretty price, and I intend to use that fact to
my advantage.” Suzette was not surprised that Madame Laurent possessed calculated and heartless plans
regarding the sale of her virtue.
“Well, don’t look so surprised. This is a business, not a boarding house. I run it as a
business—to make money.” She shuffled a few papers around then turned her attention back to
Suzette.
“Let me go over a few basic things before I have one of our girls take you to your quarters.
We have thirty rooms here in the Chabanais and thirty girls. By law, we are not allowed more
girls than rooms. Foolish and stifling regulations indeed,” she complained. “Otherwise, I’d have
more girls.”
Suzette remembered Nadine’s words—“thirty rooms, thirty whores.”
“All of my girls are provided room and board as part of their compensation, if they wish. I
know you only have the borrowed clothes upon your back, but I do not pay for your personal
clothing and incidentals. It must come out of your own pay. I’m more than happy to advance
you money since you have none, but you will be indebted to me. I shall subtract what you owe
me over the course of your employment during the next few months. Do we understand each
other?”
“Yes, Madame.”
“I do provide my girls a large selection of lingerie, enticing gowns, and regional costume
dress for work. However, I prefer to purchase the outfits myself that I think are best for my
clientele’s pleasure and the rooms where the girls are assigned.” Leaning back in her chair, she
eyed Suzette and then reiterated her good fortune.
“You are lucky, Suzette, even if you do not realize it. You may not like where you are at
the moment, but at least you are alive, warm, and have a fully belly.”
Suzette still possessed unanswered questions, one of which was the curious opening that
she now filled. “What happened to the other girl before me? Why do you now have twenty-nine
instead of thirty? Did she quit or something?”
Madame Laurent looked clearly surprised over her inquisitive question but answered it
truthfully nonetheless. “The girl before you, unfortunately, caught syphilis. I cater to the best of
clientele so that my girls remain disease-free; however, one of my patrons apparently found
pleasure in some street trash and was infected. It angers me when a perfectly capable employee
of mine contracts the insidious disease and is sent to the hospital. He, on the other hand, has
been banned from my establishment.”
She stood from her desk and came over to her side. Suzette found no compassion in her
eyes—only superiority.
“As far as why I chose you, I have my reasons.” Madame Laurent took her hand lifting
Suzette’s chin upward. “You have a sense of royalty about your demeanor. Once the rosebud is
open, you will be perfect for the Louis XV Chambre. I’ll adorn you like a queen, and no doubt
the men will treat you as one.” Her gaze lingered on the innocent face she held captive. “Well,
at least most of them will.”
Suzette followed Madame Laurent out the door. “I’ll have Nadine show you around and
give you the grand tour.”
As they entered the parlor, Suzette was surprised to see it filled with perfumed, seductive
women waiting for patrons to arrive. The afternoon had slipped by, and it was nearly seven
o’clock, the legal hour when the brothel could open.

