For U.S. World Cup team, it'll be glory or chaos
United States' Michael Bradley, center left, runs through obstacles with teammates during a training session at the Arena da Amazonia in Manaus, Brazil, Sunday, June 22, 2014. The U.S. will play Portugal in group G of the 2014 soccer World Cup on June 22. (AP Photo/Paulo Duarte) Photo: Julio Cortez, Associated Press
The pivotal moment for the United States arrives Sunday in the heart of the Amazon rain forest.
This was always shaping up to be the match of mystery, a game difficult to predict. Now, after Germany and Ghana tied on Saturday, this has become a game of destiny. A contest between the vast talents of Cristiano Ronaldo that have yet to be unleashed, and an erratic U.S. defense that did just enough in the first game.
Beat Portugal in the steaming heat of Manaus and the Americans are through to the knockout stage. Lose to Portugal and Group G becomes not only the Group of Death but the Group of Chaos.
The stage for the battle is exotic. Manaus, reachable only by plane or riverboat, 200 miles south of the equator, is a place of mystery. Ann Patchett wrote a novel set there titled "State of Wonder." And that seems to be what Manaus as a host city has become: a place of wondering and questions.
Why did FIFA choose to put a stadium in such a remote and difficult location? What will the conditions be like? The early forecast is for 85 degrees and 85 percent humidity, creating an inhumane heat index of 99. Will mandatory water breaks, ordered last week by a Brazilian court, be instituted during the match?
Will the players have heat-induced hallucinations, as reported by those who participated in the Italy-England game in the same location? Will the American players be fit enough to survive?
Whatever happens, this will be another fascinating chapter in a World Cup journey that has enthralled the country. Television ratings are through the roof, the best ESPN has ever had for the men's World Cup. When the ESPN and Univision numbers are combined, they're hitting NFL territory. (It should be noted that the highest rated soccer game in U.S. history remains the Women's World Cup final in 1999.) San Francisco is the second-highest-rated market in the country for all World Cup games, behind Washington, D.C.
The World Cup experience is captivating social media. Facebook has reported more interactions on its site than for the Olympics, Super Bowl and Academy Awards combined. Twitter is burning up.
And Americans are making their presence known in Brazil. According to FIFA, U.S. residents bought over 200,000 tickets, more than any country except Brazil. Sports Illustrated reports that there are between 90,000 and 100,000 Americans in Brazil, three times more visitors than from any other country, though border crossers from neighboring Argentina may be hard to measure.
Will the Americans make their presence felt in Manaus as they did in Natal? Will chants of "I believe that we will win" ring though the stadium again? Will those cheers help push the American team through its toughest stretches?
The United States' fitness was an issue in the first game against Ghana as player after player appeared slowed by cramps or muscle pulls. The worst case was Jozy Altidore, who was felled by a strained hamstring and is out for this match, possibly the rest of the World Cup.
That presents a lineup question for coach Jurgen Klinsmann, who was relying on Altidore to be his target forward. Will he again turn to Aron Johannsson, relatively ineffective after replacing Altidore? Or will he give an opportunity to the Bay Area's native son, Chris Wondolowski, who has incredible scoring instincts? Will he forgo another forward and add a midfielder?
How will the U.S. defenders try to contain Ronaldo, the reigning player of the year? Ronaldo couldn't solve Germany and was oddly left in for the entire futile 90 minutes despite nursing an injured knee. But that doesn't mean he'll be contained for another 90 minutes.
The World Cup is the stage where greatness is solidified. No matter what England's Wayne Rooneyaccomplishes in his career, his failures on the sport's biggest stage will detract from his legend. On Saturday, Ronaldo saw Lionel Messi, his rival both at the club and global levels, score a magnificent goal in stoppage time to save Argentina from an embarrassing draw with Iran. That's what world-class players do.
Ronaldo will be motivated to include his name alongside the greatest. He'll also be desperate for his team to stay alive. With another loss, Portugal is out.
"When you get that 4-0 result from Germany, you're going to come into Manaus pretty angry," Klinsmann said. "And I don't know how Cristiano Ronaldo behaves when he's angry."
Ronaldo will face an American back line that at times looked overmatched and overwhelmed by Ghana and is the team's weak link. The key will be to limit his touches, which means better possession in the midfield, and a better game from U.S. captainMichael Bradley.
Another key is Tim Howard, one of the best goalkeepers in the tournament. Howard was Ronaldo's teammate at Manchester United and calls him a player not only with "flash and flair, but his work ethic is second to none."
It will be a battle, in a remote and challenging venue. And a favorable outcome would mean the Americans would reach a true state of wonder.
Game of the Day
United States vs. Portugal, 3 p.m., ESPN
The outcome of Group G is riding on this match after Saturday's surprising 2-2 draw between Ghana and Germany. With a win, the Americans are through to the knockout stage, controlling the Group of Death. With a draw, the United States will still be in good shape for advancement. But a loss would throw the entire group into disarray. The U.S. offense sustained a blow with the hamstring injury to Jozy Altidore; there's a chance that Earthquakes forward Chris Wondolowski will see some playing time as a result, though coach Jurgen Klinsmann could add an extra midfielder instead. The team's main objective will be to defend Cristiano Ronaldo, the reigning world player of the year, who scored 51 goals in 47 matches with Real Madrid last season and is a threat despite a lingering knee injury. Portugal is desperate after a 4-0 thrashing by Germany in the opener. Pride wasn't the only thing hurt in that match: Striker Hugo Almeida and defender Fabio Coentrao were both injured, and defender Pepe received a red card. None will play Sunday. Portugal reached the semifinals in 2006, Ronaldo's first World Cup, and the second round in 2010. The United States upset Portugal 3-2 in 2002, the last time the Portuguese played in a World Cup without Ronaldo.
World Cup 2014: For how long can Messi magic save Argentina?
One couldn't help but root for Iran as the match against pre-tournament favourites Argentina was coming to an end.
The Asian team, which had trouble finding opponents for friendlies in the lead up to the tournament due to the politcal uncertainty in Iran, were proving unbreakable against Messi and Argentina.
Let there be no doubt: Argentina controlled the game -- they had 64 percent possession, more shots: 21 to 8, better passing percentage: 90 to 66, created more chances: 18 to 7, and had more crosses: 41 to 16.
But Iran fought by putting their bodies on the line and defending like men possessed. While Argentina were on top in all the attacking stats, Iran's stats in defence against the team that in the eyes of many has the best concentration of attacking talent in the world were stunning -- 43 clearances and 17 blocks.
For 90 minutes, Iran didn't put a foot wrong. In the first half, they stayed circumspect; in the second half, they even attacked and forced good saves out of the Argentine goalkeeper. They more than deserved a point out of the match.
But sports isn't about deserves. In the 91st minute, Iran gave Lionel Messi an inch in line with the right hand post but well outside the D. Messi took that inch, converted it into a yard, took four steps, pushed past his marker and curled the ball into the left hand corner of the Iranian goal.
From 33 yards out, it was Messi's longest successful strike of 2014 and given the brilliant placement, it was unstoppable.
It was a deja vu moment -- we saw Messi do almost the same thing in the first game against Bosnia. Two bad games for Messi and Argentina, but two goals of rare quality rescuing them on both occasions.
But as long as Messi was shackled, Argentina looked anything but pre-tournament favourites. Iran didn't give him space and Argentina's lack of a midfield general was once again sorely exposed.
Coming into the tournament, many had felt that the Argentina defence would be suspect. But their forward line made up of Higuan (24 goals, 12 assists for Napoli in last season), Aguero (28 goals, 14 assists for Man City), Messi (41 goals, 15 assists for Barcelona), Lavezzi (12 goals, 7 assists for PSG), Palacio (19 goals, 8 assists for Inter) and Angel di Maria (11 goals, 26 assists for Real) would more than make up for whatever deficiencies they had at the back.
In total, the Argentina attack force has 135 goals and 82 assists in the last club season. Now, they are all players playing in the top leagues around Europe and surely, they can put in a better performance at the World Cup against opponents like Bosnia and Iran.
In that sense, Argentina have been one of the most disappointing sides in the tournament. So much was expected of them and Messi that their current show is underwhelming. The lack of a playmaker seems to be hurting as is their decision to play almost everything through the center of the pitch.
That is the area where Messi is at his best but it is also where Aguero and Higuain are dangerous. As a result, the three ended up being bunched up almost through the game. It makes them easier to mark and less potent.
Di Maria does a lot of his good work for Real down the flanks, using his superb pace to pull defenders out wide. But he hasn't been able to do that in this World Cup, creating just three chances in two games. Contrast that to the way he plays for Real and you know that tactically, they are just not letting him loose at the opposition.
Messi usually plays superbly in traffic but he isn't playing at Barcelona, with players who spend the best part of a year together. Instead, despite his improving record for Argentina, he still seems to find himself part of an unfamiliar team. The link-up play especially in the final third between the team has been lacking -- and that is hurting this team.
Messi has been directly involved in (64) goals in (88) appearances with Argentina's senior national team (40 goals, 24 assists). The numbers show just how key he is for the national side. It also shows that if you somehow managed to control him, you will have a chance and that is what has been happening so far.
Iran were very disciplined in defence but if Argentina can't break them down even with the best player in the world in their side, then it spells trouble for them.
For now, though, Messi's magic moments have earned them a reprieve and a chance to go back to the drawing board. Tactically, Alejandro Sabella's side still seems to be experimenting to find the right combination -- if and when they do, it'll show in the goals tally.
World Cup 2014: Fearless Ghana show Germany are beatable
Before their match against Ghana, Germany had scored 58 goals in 20 matches and had scored in 19 of their last 20 World Cup group games. The last time they had a 0-0 draw in the World Cup was against Mexico 28 years ago before the Berlin wall fell and they were known as West Germany.
Simply put — this is a team that loves to score. Germany has also never lost a penalty shootout in World Cup history. So basically you will concede against Germany and in the knockouts, you cannot expect to take them to a shootout and beat them.
Which leaves one option — take them on, attack them, harry them, frustrate them, don't back down and don't be afraid to go forward thinking they'll punish you on the break. If a team allows Germany to take charge of a match, they will be punished — so it's better go out with a fight than go out like how Portugal did — hammered 4-0.
Ghana did exactly that. From the off, they showed their muscle, bumping off the Germans — especially Mesut Ozil, Mario Gotze and Toni Kroos. Fourteen out of 23 Ghana tackles were made on these three players. They also won all three of their aerial duels with Thomas Muller, who was the tallest German attacker on the pitch until Miroslav Klose came on.
There were two major areas where Ghana really excelled — the first being the number of interceptions they made. In Germany's 4-0 romp, the Portuguese made only nine interceptions out of which just five came in their own half. Ghana made 23 interceptions and 30 clearances, stopping the ball in key areas. The Germans love working the ball into the box, and they played a lot of low crosses which didn't result in a goal, forcing Germany to try something different. Ghana kept them thinking, never allowing them to settle.
The number of interceptions also indicate that Ghana were not man-marking Germany — they didn't wait for the ball to come to an attackers feet, they stopped it earlier.
Ghana interceptions vs Germany
The other area was attack. Ghana was happy to come forward even before Germany scored. When they fell behind, Ghana responded by scoring the equaliser within three minutes. Overall, Ghana played six through balls to Germany's three.
The Germans were wary of them in the first half itself when they completed three passes into the attacking penalty area — as many as Portugal in their entire World Cup opener. In just 45 minutes, Ghana sent in 10 crosses and created four goal-scoring chances. In the entire game, they created 11 goal-scoring chances compared to Germany's nine — five of these from inside the box and three on the edge of it. Portugal also created eight chances — but just one from inside the box.
Ghana were fearless in their goal-scoring approach too and not shy to test Manuel Neuer. They smashed seven shots in the first half and 19 in all.
Ghana chances created in 90 minutes
The Germans were not expecting a team to show them no respect after what they had done to Portugal. But Ghana played without fear and in doing so showed the distinguished four-time champions that even they can be rattled.
World Cup: Mexico Soccer Slur Under Scrutiny
RIO DE JANEIRO—World Cup fans from Mexico have gotten a yellow card from activist groups and FIFA after bringing a slur often used against gays to the world stage.
For years, Mexican soccer fans have shouted the Spanish insult "puto" in unison at opposing teams' goalies during goal kicks. The word is an offensive synonym for "gay man."
The jeer is hardly controversial in Mexico: It is used at many professional soccer matches, sometimes by a majority of fans, and is clearly audible in live television broadcasts.
But at a time when gay-rights groups in the U.S. and Europe are increasingly campaigning against sexual discrimination in sports, the cry of "puto" at the World Cup didn't go unnoticed. Thousands of fans used it at Mexico's first two matches against Cameroon and Brazil.
FIFA said Thursday it opened disciplinary proceedings against Mexico for "improper conduct of spectators," though soccer's governing body declined to provide further details. A FIFA spokesperson said Friday that the organization takes a "zero-tolerance stance on any form of discrimination, including on account of sexual orientation."
"This is something that has been in the [Mexican] League for a long time, and we can't stop the fans from expressing themselves," he said.
Mexico's national team will play at least one more match in this World Cup, against Croatia on Monday. While the game could give fans a chance to show they have learned a lesson in political correctness, it doesn't appear likely.
Defenders of the slogan emerged in Mexico on Friday, arguing that it's used in a harmless context. Mexico coach Miguel Herrera said the chant is a way to pressure the opposing goalie into making a mistake, and said the Mexico team is "with the fans."
Joaquin López-Dóriga, a prominent news anchor at Mexican broadcasting giant Televisa, said in a column Friday that "puto…has the meaning that one wishes to give it." He also accused FIFA of using the Mexican fans' behavior to distract attention from allegations of corruption within its own ranks.
"I get that there are good consciences and bleeding hearts pretending to be offended by what they hear," López-Dóriga said. "But this streak of carefully phrased Puritanism is an act of hypocrisy to distract from the multimillion-dollar graft that occurred in the approval of future World Cup hosts Russia and especially Qatar."
Others say that use of the word on the world stage reflects badly on Mexico as a nation of homophobes and potty-mouths.
"The cry of 'puto' is an expression of disdain and rejection," Mexico's antidiscrimination agency, Conapred, said. "The way in which this collective yell is given in stadiums isn't innocent; it reflects the homophobia, machismo and misogyny that our society still suffers."
In Brazil, authorities have been more focused during the World Cup on discouraging expressions of racism, a crime so serious here that offenders can be arrested without bail. But they have more limited tools for tackling homophobia, said Symmy Larrat, coordinator for the promotion of LGBT rights at the president's Human Rights Secretariat.
Efforts to push anti-homophobia laws through Brazil's Congress have been stymied by conservative legislators, Larrat said. Victims of such insults can press their case on the grounds of general discrimination or, problematically, slander. But jail-time would be unlikely.
"We think it's extremely important that FIFA hold people responsible for taking these positions, to help strengthen the debate in our country," Larrat said.
Five Points: Germany and Ghana entertain, Iran sets out its stall brilliantly
Ghana alters shape and slows tempo to dictate first half
The dynamic of the defeat to the U.S. did not suit Ghana particularly well. There were too many times when the Black Stars were asked to break down the American opposition in possession. There were only a handful of instances to move quickly and sharply against a defense recovering or scrambling into position. And the frustrations of that night and the result at the end of it reflected those travails.
James Kwesi Appiah employed a different tactical approach to good effect in the 2-2 draw with Germany. He returned to the 4-2-3-1 setup and told his players to protect the middle of the park to disrupt the incessant movement of the Germans. He told his side to play directly out of the back to take best advantage of its strengths on the break. It constituted a sensible change in tack against a German side engineered to operate in possession and throw numbers into attack.
The revamped structure – and particularly the excellent Sulley Muntari and Mohammed Rabiu in front of the back four – prompted a more complete performance. The central midfield three interrupted the German work in possession and stamped its impact on the game. The deeper line slowed the game down in the first half to a pace where the Ghanaians could then exploit their superiority on the break.
Everything essentially played out in Ghana’s favor. Germany carried much of the burden of the game, yet it struggled to hit its usual tempo in possession or grasp firm control of the proceedings due to the Ghanaian shape. The counter always loomed as a possibility with diagonals out of midfield and wingers darting into intelligent areas to receive them. Asamoah Gyan ran the channels to perfection and registered a deserved second half goal, while Andre Ayew justified his retention with a difficult header to equalize at 1-1.
Credit Appiah – one of the more heavily criticized managers heading into this tournament – for getting the hard part right against an opponent more willing to allow Ghana to do what it does best. It almost paid off with an unexpected three points.
Germany responds in second half by increasing its cadence and leaning on its alternatives
Jogi Löw responded to the tepid first half by changing the composition of his side as the second stanza unfolded. He instructed his midfielders to increase the tempo in possession (critical to get something out of the game) and turned to his bench in the wake of Gyan’s goal to sharpen the work in the final third.
The introduction of Miroslav Klose and Bastian Schweinsteiger ensured the Germans left with a point. Schweinsteiger represented a considerable improvement over the overwhelmed Sami Khedira, while Klose prowled around as expected to provide a more reliable center forward presence when required.
Both players featured prominently in producing the goal. Schweinsteiger won the corner  to create it. Klose reacted intelligently at the back post to poke home at the far post to draw his side level and tie Ronaldo’s record with 15 World Cup goals.
Klose and Schweinsteiger constituted the exact change of pace required in this affair. Schweinsteiger performed well enough to suggest he could replace Khedira moving forward, while Klose underscored the utility of having a genuine center forward on the bench to provide a different look if required. This new German side may rely on its movement most of the time, but its ability to turn to other options in a time of need presents the sort of adaptability required to move further in this tournament.
Iran highlights Argentina’s weakness out wide with organized defensive display
Carlos Queiroz does not possess a similar breadth of options in his Iran squad. His team is limited in most respects, but it does possess a defiant streak. Queiroz entered this difficult game with one implausible route toward a result against Argentina: defend with every player behind the ball, retain solidity in the center of the field at all costs and try to nick a goal on the break.
It almost worked due to Iran’s impeccable organization and Argentina’s inability to create anything of use in the wide areas to stretch out the shape. Argentina’s narrow 4-3-1-2 shape complemented Iran’s tactical plan to congest the center of the park and placed the responsibility largely on the fullbacks once again to mitigate those concerns. Marcus Rojo and Pablo Zabaleta pushed up early and often, but they exerted little influence on the game. The inevitable crosses caused few problems for the packed Iranian defense because they either missed their mark (nine out of 41 were successful, according to Opta statistics) or swung into comfortable areas for the center backs.
Alejandro Sabella bears much of the blame for waiting far too long to shift course and throw his substitutes into the fray. His first two changes arrived with a quarter of an hour to play at a point when Iran had already seen a reasonable penalty shout waved away and a good counter or two end with a save from Sergio Romero. Ezequiel Lavezzi should have entered at halftime to roam the right flank with Angel Di Maria on the left. The duo would have posed problems for Iranian fullbacks Pejman Montazeri and Mehdrad Pooladi, but Lavezzi instead entered the game at the same time Di Maria departed.
One moment of brilliance from Lionel Messi absolved Argentina at the death and punished Iran harshly for tiring in the late stages. Queiroz and Iran deserved a point for the excellent overall display instead of this 1-0 defeat, but Messi ensured a cruel ending to an otherwise wonderful afternoon for Team Melli. 
Solid core and strong work in the channels leads Nigeria to victory
The wildly entertaining nightcap provided yet another refereeing talking point to digest and supplied yet another example of the benefits of cohesive defensive work. Nigeria ultimately procured its deserved 1-0 win over Bosnia-Herzegovina by restricting the central areas and shifting quickly into the attack once obtaining possession.
Nigeria boss Stephen Keshi correctly identified the primary paths to victory in this game and tailored his team selection accordingly. He included Peter Odemwingie from the start and permitted Emmanuel Emenike to drift out toward the right to run at the out of position Emir Spahic. He relied on the rapid transition to exploit Bosnia’s dearth of pace in defense and then relied on his resolute defensive core – Kenneth Omeruo (excellent on the day) and Joseph Yobo in central defense with John Obi Mikel and Ogenyi Onazi stationed in front of them – to thwart any attempts to combine neatly or provide Edin Dzeko with meancing supply through the middle.
Most of those efforts – with the notable exception of a wonderfully constructed and wrongly disallowed goal by Dzeko before the half hour – paid off as expected. Nigeria rampaged forward on the counter and snatched the only goal when Emenike turned around Spahic and pulled back for Odemwingie to finish. Other opportunities failed to yield a second, but the defense held firm enough to warrant the final result.
It is a triumph that changes the outlook in this group considerably. Nigeria faces a difficult final day test against Argentina, but it knows Iran can only go through with a victory over eliminated Bosnia-Herzegovina. Based on this display and the landscape ahead, Nigeria probably holds the inside track in the race for second place.
World Cup Diary / Black Stars shine, but Messi still the star attraction
A pattern has emerged from the three daily group games at this year’s World Cup. The first game is generally low-key for an hour as the sides grapple with the heat, humidity and expectations. Then, it explodes into life after one team scores. The second game – the main feature – is a rip-roaring or dramatic encounter (think France vs. Switzerland, Uruguay vs. England). And the third game is a bit of an anti-climax after all that has gone before.
Take Saturday’s games as an example. The first game, Argentina vs. Iran, was attack versus defense for the first half, with the Iranians keeping eight or nine men behind the ball at all times, presumably in fear of getting a nosebleed if they ventured too high up the pitch. (Guys, it’s red lines we don’t want you to cross, not those white ones.)
But as the second half progressed, a miracle happened in Belo Horizonte: Iran crossed the halfway line with intent, and went close to scoring three times – each time thwarted by Argentine goalkeeper Sergio Romero. Even more amazingly, it did this despite attempting the least number of passes in a game (130) at a World Cup game since 1966. Yes, even less than those England teams that failed to pass muster.
Despite almost everyone in the crowd seemingly wearing an Argentina shirt, there was still plenty of backing for the Iranians from the neutrals in attendance (although whether a Brazilian watching Argentina is neutral is a moot point). It was reminiscent of the way crowds backed the North Koreans in South Africa four years ago. There’s something heartening about these so-called rogue states being adopted by soccer fans, whose love of an underdog trumps politics every time. (Although stories like thismake it harder for you to throw your support behind the Iranians.)
Alas, like a eunuch in a massage parlor, there was no happy ending for the Iranians. Leo Messi, who had been anonymous for most of the game, produced a moment of genius in the 91st minute – a curling shot from 25 yards – to give the Argentines an undeserved victory. They may have qualified for the last 16, but so far they have been as convincing as an Anthony Weiner apology. We should probably assume that Argentine coach Alejandro Sabella hands in a team sheet reading “Messi, plus 10 others,” and then asks Pope Francis for back-up help.
Talking of divine things, if there’s a better 45 minutes than the madcap second half of Germany vs. Ghana, we can’t wait to see it. This was one of those games your mind tells you all World Cup matches before 1982 were like: two teams throwing caution to the wind, going for the jugular and any other cliché you care to enlist. Joachim Low – the German coach, who seems to pick his nose almost as much as he picks Bayern Munich players – is apparently under fire in Germany after overseeing three near-misses in successive major finals. The way his defense was run ragged by Ghana, he may well struggle to get the grand prize this time, too.
Top marks to the Black Stars for a gung-ho approach, and for so nearly getting the win their attitude merited. Ghana was unlucky to lose to the United States, and it would have been cruel to see such an enterprising, entertaining side bow out now. Kudos to Ghana’s first goalscorer, Andre Ayew, for his wonderful header and all-round cheerleading skills, and also Miroslav Klose, who equalled Ronaldo’s World Cup scoring record by hitting the German equalizer with his first touch, 112 seconds after entering the pitch. Not bad for a 36-year-old.
There has been an average of 2.9 goals per game so far, and even though Nigeria-Bosnia Herzegovina only contributed one (by Nigeria’s Peter Odemwingie), it could have been more – Bosnia’s Edin Dzeko had eight shots alone, one of which was erroneously disallowed.
