Chapter 2: the black Forest
    Albus woke up Monday morning, ready to finally start learning, for the first Sunday was given off as a treat from the school. He and his roommates all got dressed climbed through the portrait of the Fat Lady and joined the other students milling into the Great Hall. Albus sat down between James and Domi at the Gryffindor table and next to James on the other side was Fred. Next to Domi were Rose, Lucy and Victoire. They all ate breakfast over talking about different things when the owl post arrived. Tens of owls suddenly swooped down over the tables, some carrying letters, some packages, but amongst the owls was a phoenix that caught everyone in the room’s eye. It was holding a long package tied to its tail and a note attached to its foot. The beautiful bird swooped down over the Gryffindor table and landed in front of James and everyone looked with amazement and question at the bird and its package.
“Wow! Who sent it?” Albus asked as he saw the letter read out to his older brother. “Open it!” 
“Okay okay.” James said as he took the letter, with caution from the bird’s leg as he saw a few teachers watching from the teacher’s table with the same expression as almost everyone else. The note read the following:
Dear James,
 How are you doing? How is it back t be in school? I know my appearance at the common room on the first night was odd, but the map, I got upset that you took it, but at the end, I should have given it to you at the beginning of your first year, it is a Hogwarts map! 
 In case you are alarmed, the phoenix is my phoenix Fawkes, who joined me the night you and Albus boarded the train, ask Dumbledore about the phoenix if you want to know, Fawkes was his phoenix once upon a time when he was alive.
 I know you want to be a Beater or seeker or Chaser or something, so I got you and your siblings each a broom, the same broom, but only you can use one so here is yours,
Love,
Dad & Mom.
P.S. I’ll be seeing you in a day or two
   James hurriedly opened the package to find a nice black broom with Fireblast 300 written on the handle in golden letters. Everyone looked at it in awe, Katie Cornwell, the sixth year Gryffindor who is captain of her house’s Quidditch team came over to see what everyone was looking at and when she saw it, she let out a gasp.
“A…Fireblast 300! You want to tryouts for the team?” She asked, blushing.
“Yeah! I want or be Beater or something.” He answered.
“You are sooo lucky!” Albus said.
“Stop whining, you have one at home.” James told him and Albus practically fell off his the bench. James went to put in his dorm and everyone scattered. 
“Oh, did Potter get a new toy, what is it? A brain?” Mace asked as he pushed the kids away to reach the Gryffindor table just as James got up.
“So funny Lestrange, how ‘bout I strangle you?” James said.
“Let us see you try.” Malfoy said threateningly.
   Nine out of ten rays of light smashed Lestrange, Malfoy and Umbrage into the wall next to the Slytherin table while the only spell deflected, Emmet’s, made him throw slugs up for the next ten minutes where James evaded the scene and his brother and cousins took the hit.
“What is this!?” Desdemon screamed. “Are you all right in your minds!? All of you-” Desdemon said but was cut off by Slughorn, the Slytherin house head: “Have lost Gryffindor ten points each and you all will spend detention with James and Mr. Prince, even if you are throwing slugs up.” He said as three teachers took care of Mace, Scorpio and Brone as they were in the hospital wing the whole day. “At seven O’clock at Hagrid’s, oh, Victoire, please give these to your cousins and siblings, Goldshawk said that it is accustom for you to give the Weasleys the lessons schedule for there are so many.” Slughorn finished as he handed her the pieces of parchment and a few kids sniggered, and Desdemon’s face was red with anger for some un known reason and he was staring hungrily at Albus and Domi and Rose.
   When James came back he got his schedule and was told what happened after he left and the other Gryffindors were not so happy anymore for they lost just then 110 points. All of them left to their classes, Domi, Rose and Albus all have Defense Against the Dark Arts with Ravenclaw as the first lesson and then Herbology with Hufflepuff. James and many start the day off with Divination and then Potions with Slytherin.
***
“Sir, Harry, they looked for the dragon again after last week’s sighting by Hagrid, we could not find the Common Welsh Green at all, but we found where it stays, we found marked trees where the Acromantula colony was once, oh, and Hagrid is here to speak to you.” Basil Alastair, the Hogwarts Headmaster’s nephew, an Auror told Harry.
“Bring him in.” Harry said without looking up from behind his desk in the Ministry. 
“‘Ello Harry.” Hagrid said as he sat down on two stools before Harry’s desk. 
“Hi Hagrid.” Harry said smiling as he looked up and shook his old friend and professor’s giant over normal sized hand. “What’s up?”
“I thinking of looking for the beast tonight, they found eggs, but took ‘em, so maybe I can find the dragon because it will return to the nest, but you know, it would help if the eggs were there and er…your sons and nieces and nephews got detention with me at seven and…you got it.” Hagrid said as his voice trailed off.
“Okay, and?” Harry asked.
“Well it is kind of dangerous so I am asking you, your in-laws and wife all agreed that what you say is fine, so what do you say?” Hagrid asked looking at Harry now.
“Just like I said before, fine, what is the problem?” Harry said as he looked through the papers on his desk.
“Well it is a dragon, and you know dragons how dangerous they are.”
“Hey, also Fleur knows, and besides, the Common Welsh, it might probably be afraid of humans, being captured, fighting Fleur in an arena, and that is why it escaped and his hiding so well in the black Forest for already what is it, twenty two years?” Harry asked.
“Well then, wish us luck, bye.” Hagrid said and Harry waved to him as he walked out and headed back t the school via Floo Powder and the fireplaces in the Atrium. 
***
   Only five minutes into the lesson and every boy in the class besides Albus, and a Ravenclaw boy, her blonde haired son David were in a trance by Arianna’s magic by her being a pure Veela. 
“Today we will learn two simple spells, Expelliarmus and Immobulus, two spells that I want two pairs of students, two boys and two girls.” She said and all the boys raised their hand. “It will have to be with full concentration and none of you boys are in your right mind that I am here besides David and Albus, please come to the front of the class, and the two faced each other.
“Albus how are you immune to my spell?” She whispered into his ear.
“My cousin, Domi, is an eight Veela.” He answered.
“Well okay, Domi, against Albus and Tiffany against my son.” She said as a curly brown haired girl with greenish bluish eyes stood up and faced David, a fellow Ravenclaw. “Now, I want the girls to try to immobilize the boys and the boys to take away their wands, on a count of three. One, get ready, two; keep eye contact, and three!” She said and there were four screams: “Stupefy!” “Expelliarmus!” “Immobulus!” “Rictusempra!”
   Four  color lights flashed and with a boom the lights stopped and the following scene appeared from behind the smoke: David, lying on the ground, immobile and Tiffany was on the floor with her wand five feet away and a glass tank on one of the closets shattered and a baby Grindylow was on the floor, dead. Albus smashed into a wooden chair and it broke, and Domi was on the floor, unconscious. Albus got up and saw everyone’s confused faces, and a few Ravenclaws looking in horror at Domi’s body thinking Albus killed him but then Albus did on her Ennervate and she woke up. Arianna unfroze her son and the four children sat back in their seats. 
“I see you two wanted to do different spells, showing off, well, that means more homework for everyone, class dismissed and these for spells have to be mastered if not done well by the lesson on Thursday.” Professor Belinda said as she wrote the four spells in the air and the class wrote them down and left class a quarter of an hour early.
“Of my God! Divination is a piece of baloney!” James said as he met Albus and the girls in the hallway on the way to Lunch. “It is a waste of time! ‘Open you inner eye’, what? How about opening her normal two eyes!” 
“Blimey, what do you expect from “diviners”, dad told me that his old Transfiguration teacher said that it is a very poor and not exact science.” Fred said. 
“Professor Belinda got upset at Albus for not falling to her spell.” Domi said as she caught up to them for she went to the bathroom.
“Then Professor Longbottom tried to find every way possible to award Rose, Domi, Lucy and I house points and then after the break, Professor Flitwick was disappointed that I am not so good at charms like you James.” Albus said.
“Thank-you, thank-you, you are all so kind.” James said and everyone giggled.
“Ooh! Is it family detention? Good luck in the forest, I heard there is a free dragon roaming around between the trees and a big furry three headed dog!” Kieran, Desdemon’s daughter said, taunting them and the few girls around her laughed.
“Ignore them, guys, she is just acting stupid.” Molly said as everyone sat down at the lunch table.
“Oh I would like to burn her with that dragon.” Victoire said, she uses the fact that the most evil teacher in the school is her father.”
   The day went by and the sun fell behind the trees and the clock ticked closer to seven. As it neared seven, the ten started down to Hagrid’s hut and on the way they met Lestrange, Malfoy and Umbrage, for taunting the Weasleys and trying to plant a dungbomb in the Gryffindor common room after they left the hospital wing.
***
   Four great big silver statues of dragons stood in the far right corner of the Transfiguration Courtyard, standing like the statues in the Ministry of Magic. The dragons were the giant real life silver sculptors of the four dragons that were used in the Triwizard Tournament, each as a dedication. The Chinese Firebolt is to remember the dead champion Cedric Diggory, the Hungarian Horntail for the forth champion Harry Potter, his win and his defeat of Voldemort. The Common Welsh Green is for the escape of the dragon, this is the only dragon made male, the others are female, so the female escapee might be attracted to it and come out of the forest so then it could be caught. The Swedish Short Snout is to remember the Triwizard Tournament, but everyone knows it is because the other three dragons were made so they wanted the forth too.    Goldshawk approached the them and he had a groom in his hand and took off towards the forest. 
*** 
   Above Hagrid and the thirteen students on their way to the dragon’s nest, three Aurors on Thestrals were above them and another one on a griffin. As they walked through the ever dense forest it got darker and darker. Black, a big black six year old dog who switched Fang the boarhound six years before when he died and Hagrid grew Black from a puppy came trotting up beside Hagrid. Unlike coward Fang, Black was the total opposite; Alastair told Hagrid that if Black was human he would be in Gryffindor no doubt for his bravery and kindness and he is very quick and strong.
   They walked for about an hour and then they reached a very dense part of the forest, one could not see something one meter in front of them. Hagrid had to break down trees because there was no room to get past them. 
“Oh my God! How much walking! My legs are hurting you big oaf.” Lestrange complained to Hagrid.
“Shut up Lestrange! None of us like it, it is detention and it is your entire fault!” Fred said.
“Well you were the ones to shoot us, we only talked!” Malfoy said.
“What about my slug eating!?” Emmet said.
“Is it a crime to deflect hexes?” Lestrange said.
“Okay everyone, we’re here!” Hagrid said.
They came to a giant circular clearing, with four big black trees, taller than the others across from each other making four corners to the circle. There were three pairs of eyes lurking from the shadows from behind each tree. Black let out a bark and the eyes turned out to be Centaur’s eyes, armed and ready lurking behind the trees.
   Hagrid signaled to the thirteen kids and they walked into the clearing with a moon shining on them. On the other side of the clearing there was a long space clear of trees and they walked through it followed by the centaurs. 
   They reached the end of the tree passageway to a giant nest of leaves and branches on the lower branches of two very close trees. In the nest there were four earthy ground colored eggs flecked with green. Everyone gasped and then a ball of fire barely missed the griffin’s rider and its flames licked its feathers, scaring it and it went crazy and a loud roar was heard and the other riders flew high in the air to face and take down the fire breathing creature.
   A giant green dragon flew towards the clearing, angry and with flames emanating from her nostrils. It blew another stream of fire towards the centaurs and they fled the scene. The dragon landed in her nest above her eggs. The dragon than shot flames at everyone she saw. The dragon flew up into the sky to attack the Aurors.
   Suddenly a fully frown mountain troll came out of the trees and its club raised and it charged at the dragon eggs when it saw them. The dragon was too far away to reach her eggs in time and could only try and watch her eggs getting smashed and her babies killed. Hagrid and the Aurors were planning on killing the dragon or subdue it and return it to Romania and the eggs to or disposed of. Albus, thinking they want to bring the dragon back to Romania with her eggs, hit the troll with a stunning spell and it was knocked over. Then Rose, following her cousin’s lead made the troll’s club fly into the air and smash down onto the troll’s head, smashing his skull.
   The dragon, seeing this, quietly and gently landed on her eggs and then Albus went in front of the nest and stopped the Aurors spells and told them to stop, so then Hagrid signaled for them to stop their attack on the dragon and stay in the sky. The dragon set the unconscious troll on flames and turned towards Albus and Rose. She bowed her head and she had a comforting look in her eyes, a type of gratitude. 
   Albus felt a sense of comfort and took one step forward and the dragon just stayed where she was, not acting on Albus’s movement. Hagrid signaled him to come back but instead he made two more steps towards the dragon, only a few feet away from the nest. Hagrid took one step and then the dragon looked at him with a menacing glare and then looked back at Albus with a friendly look and then he came one foot in front of the nest. Hagrid, already seeing this as a lost cause to stop Albus from getting close to the dragon, leaned down on a tree and had his new wand he acquired after the second Wizarding war, oak, 15 inches, one inch smaller than his old one and with a phoenix feather drawn, ready to act if something funny happens. 
   Then to Hagrid’s dismay, also Rose walked up to the nest like her cousin, realizing that the dragon does not care because she and her cousin saved her eggs and the dragon did not move. The two cousins got within half a foot of the nest and then the dragon let down her long green tail over the side of the nest and more to Hagrid’s dismay and to the two kids’ cousins’ entertainment they grabbed the tail and the dragon did not make any sudden movements. The dragon pulled them up by her tail and put them by her eggs and put her head down. Albus and Rose reached cautiously for the dragon’s head and they pet her and she did not budge but she did let out a low growl of satisfaction. Albus then signaled to James, Lucy and Domi to come over and they cautiously but quickly climbed the nest and pet the dragon. After five minutes all seven Weasleys and the two Potters were petting the dragon. Malfoy wanted to pet it too but Umbrage and Lestrange pulled him back to the trees. Even Hagrid was petting her, and all of them were laughing and talking and the dragon just lied there, purring like a cat. The Aurors were sending the centaurs away, for there was no need to attack the beast 
   After a few minutes Harry, Ron and Hermione appeared on hippogriffs, Harry on Buckbeak. The second Ron saw the dragon he let out a small shriek and the dragon picked up her head but Rose calmed her down before she went to say hi to her parents, and James and Albus went to hug their father. 
“Why are you guys here dad?” Albus asked. 
   
“We got the message that you guys found and even subdued her, wow, Fleur and Bill are also on the way, she wants to see her old opponent from many year back, the Common Welsh.
“Well, can she stay here, she likes us, me and Rose saved her eggs from the dead mountain troll over there, oh, she burned it, so you won’t be able to see it.” Albus said.
“Well, may I ask how he mated, with what?” Hermione asked.
“Why those are the same eggs from the first task.” Ron said.
“So funny.” Hermione said. 
“Where did you find another dragon Comi?” Rose asked the dragon and she pointed her head to the mountains.
“Comi?” Albus asked.
“Yeah, that is her name, is that okay with you?” Rose answered.
“Well if Domi lets you call the dragon after her then fine.” Albus answered and Domi agreed and giggled.
“Well, there is another dragon then? Well than we’ll have to catch him too.” Harry said.
“But she likes us, can we keep her? Please?” Albus and Rose asked.
“Mommy, you are the head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, the Minister is your friend, and there cannot be any exceptions?” Rose asked making a puppy face.
“Well, if she wants, and if we can train her, she and her eggs are welcome to the Hollow.” Harry said. “But her husband will have to go.”
“Thanks dad!” Albus said enthusiastically. “So Comi, do you want you and your babies to stay with us?” Albus asked her.
“Or even in Hogwarts if Alastair lets, I would be so happy if you could help me teach care for magical creatures on dragons, given that you are one.” Hagrid said chuckling. 
   Comi let out a stream of fire into the air and nodded. The Weasleys and the Potter kids jumped with joy and hugged their parents, uncles and aunt. The Slytherins moaned and they all ventured back to Hagrid’s hut and Goldshawk escorted the Slytherins to their dorm while the others went into Hagrid’s hut.
“So, Hagrid, one dragon egg was bad, but here I guess the babies won’t be so much trouble, the irony.” Hermione said.
“Dad, given the fact that we are all family and Hagrid is not some stranger, what is the Marauder’s map and why is its founder’s dead?” 
“Good question my boy.” Harry said and he chuckled. “I’ll tell you, James and the other Weasleys, and Hagrid should also know this secret, why not? Hermione and Ron already know, so maybe you two can help me tell the story.” Harry said and Ron, Hermione and he told the story of the Marauders and their map and its history, not expanding so they will not know what their parents won’t want to know.  
   There was a knock and Bill and Fleur came in. Domi and Victoire hugged them and Fleur retold her fight against Comi. They left the hut and went to see Comi in the pumpkin patch guarding her eggs and playing with Buckbeak. Comi recognized Fleur and got all aggressive, but Rose and Albus calmed her down like usual and fleur and Bill petted her.
“Why Comi?” Bill asked.
“Short for comet, because she is a flying thing full of fire, and Comi is short for it comet.” Rose said.
“So, the dragon meets her opponent and they are both still alive.” Alastair said as he came out of the darkness and laughed.
“Professor Alastair, here is the ol’ dragon, can we keep her during the school year in the castle? Rose and Albus can calm her.” Hagrid asked him.
“Well Goldshawk? Belinda? What do you think?” He asked as the two professors came out of the same darkness, from the castle.
“I say she is beautiful, she looks exactly like in the sculptor, with that small triangular scar next to her right eye. Sure, why not?” Belinda said as she approached the dragon and held one of her eggs, after Albus picked it up first.
“I agree with her.” Goldshawk said.
“Yes, Veela spells can also make the effected one agree with whatever the Veela says Goldshawk.” Grubby-Plank said coming done the stairs to the hut.  “Oh my! What a beast!” She said admiring the flying green flamethrower and Goldshawk laughed.
“Where will this dragon stay?” Belinda asked.
“We’ll find it a place, but the important part is to warn students.” Goldshawk said.
“Alastair, you should do it just like Dumbledore did in my first year. He said the following about not going on to the third floor corridor on the right hand side because of Fluffy: ‘The third floor corridor on the right hand side is out of bounds to everyone who doesn’t wish to die a most painful death.’ But here just put the whatever place Comi will be instead of the third floor corridor, now of course Albus and Rose won’t die, but everyone else, most probably, no?” Harry said.
“Great idea, well, these students have to go to bed, it is getting late.” Alastair said and Harry, Ron and Hermione and Bill and fleur said good-bye and left. The kids were then escorted to the Gryffindor tower by Goldshawk and Belinda.
   Comi’s nest was rebuilt in the secret room in the Training grounds, where Madam Hooch teaches the first years flying lessons. The secret room than became non-secret but now locked and out of bounds. Comi’s nest with her four eggs was inside and she able always to enter and exit the room freely through the enchanted roof of it. Albus and Domi each received a key to the room for Comi being their dragon.  
***            
   The next day the whole school was buzzing at breakfast. Everyone heard about the dragon and everyone at the Gryffindor table was asking Albus and Rose about the dragon the whole time so they barely had any time to eat before the bell chimed and the first lesson started.
   Albus, Domi, Rose and Lucy all headed for potions for it is their first lesson on Tuesday, followed by D.A.D.A with Professor Belinda. James and Emmet have the exact opposite, but they have D.A.D.A with Desdemon and not the Veela teacher. 
   Potions class is in the dungeons, with Professor Horace Slughorn, who like the potions master before him, Severus Snape, is in Slytherin, but unlike Snape, he likes his students. 
“Okay everyone, sit down, three at a table please, and sit down.” The old bulgy eyed and silver haired and mustached professor said as he entered the room walking with a wooden cane. Everyone sat down in triplets around the circular tables.
   Albus, Rose and Domi sat down around one table while Lucy went to sit down with Sophie Amsel, a friend she made on the train who was sorted into Ravenclaw for she was brilliant, and David Belinda, a male half-Veela, which makes him only a carrier of Veela blood.   
“Hello students my name is Professor Horace Slughorn and I will be your potions master this year, for next year I will be leaving, for I am one-hundred and sixteen years old and still able to teach potions, that is something. So today we shall be learning a very simple potion as an opening to the potions class.” He said and explained to them the sort of things they will be learning in potions classes and the art of potion making. “So, please follow the instructions on the board, we will be making a simple.” He said and the potion and it’s ingredients appeared on the board:
Boil Cure Potion:
Ingredients:
Dried nettles, crushed snake fangs, flobberworm mucus, stewed horned slugs, porcupine quills (added after taking the cauldron off the fire)
Instructions: 
Heat the cauldron until the potion turns red. 
Heat it again until turns green. 
Pour Flobberworm Mucus until the potion turns pink. 
Heat again until it turns orange. 
Mix the dried nettles until it turns green. 
Heat again until it turns blue. 
Mix crushed snake fangs until the potion turns pink. 
Mix Porcupine quills until the potion turns orange. 
Pour stewed horned slugs until it turns turquoise. 
And last, heat the potion until it turns red. (Continuing to heat until it turns pink is more effective) 
Drink. 
   After everyone read it they went to the cupboards to fetch the ingredients needed. Albus and Domi got their potions blue after half the lesson went by whilst Lucy and Rose only had a green colored potion after the mixed the dry Nettles. Sophie already had it in a turquoise color and David was at the first orange, the fourth instruction.
“Oh very good! I think your potion is coming out very fine Albus, I think you are blessed with you father and grandmother’s special potions capabilities, for they were both my best students and always got their potions right, and not any right but the best, each in their own generation of course.” Slughorn told Albus as he walked by his cauldron. “I see, I guess Veela spells work also on potions, keep up the good work.” He then said after he passed Domi’s and she laughed. “Ah, Hermione’s daughter, very good; you are halfway done my dear.” He said when he passed Rose’s cauldron. “Oh! I see you have a competitor, Ms. Amsel over here is almost done, and it is reddening. Oh and Mr. Belinda, you are only at the beginning, well that spill was not your fault, good job. Oh and the final Weasley in this class, Lucy, very good, just like your cousin Rose, now your parents I did not have the pleasure teaching.” Slughorn said as he past Lucy’s table.
   Right before Amsel finished her potion David by mistake knocked it over and it spelled on to the floor, and thus Albus finished his now purely pink potion first. A Ravenclaw kid who had a couple boils on his cheek and Professor Slughorn gave him the potion and instantly his boils disappeared totally. 
“Congratulations Albus! Great potion, now if you would have let it boil even more it would have worked instantly. Now most probably Ms. Amsel would have done it good too but someone knocked it over. ” Slughorn said taking a glimpse at Belinda, a little pink in the cheeks from guilt. “Class dismissed.” Horace said and Albus walked out and went to D.A.D.A. class for it was after potions. 
   very good D.A.D.A. class where they were taught many attack spells like ‘Pertificus Totalus’ ‘Aresto Momentum’ and helping spells like ‘Emendo’ to fix bones and ‘Lumos’ that is a light and a defensive spell called ‘Protego’. Then there was History of magic with Professor Cuthbert Binns, the only ghost professor in the school. It is said that one day he got up one morning and went to teach and he left his body behind. He is also said to be them so boring teachers in the school where most if not all of his students fall asleep during class. In Hermione’s years she never fell asleep, but her daughter did not take after her, and neither did any of her nieces and nephews besides Lucy, who did take after her aunt, and that is how Albus, Rose and Domi decided from where they will get their notes, and Lucy agreed, but on a special condition she made with the three cousins of hers in her year.

