My thinking was that if the ultralisk was used to having someone tied to the pole for whatever ritual van Rijn had concocted, it would know when that was happening. The spores, see? It might even be in tune with their timing and have some kind of Pavlovian anticipation going. So I would go down; the ultralisk would come running; and I'd get the 
hell out of there back up the ravine. "You don't gotta do that, Sarge," Jouvert said. 
"I wouldn't volunteer someone else," I said. "I'll do it." 
So I did. I went down the ravine alone, walked straight out into the middle of the clearing littered with the shreds and scraps of my dead marines, and leaned a hand on the pole. And waited. I could hear the colonists shouting and chanting from up above, and I kind of wished we'd smoked the whole bunch. When I looked up at the sky, I could see the two moons, just touching. 
It didn't take long. I got a feeling first, a flood of adrenaline and then the psychological rush that comes when you know you've got the upper hand and you're about to deliver the killing blow. My heart rate went through the roof, and I started to sweat. I wanted to open my faceplate but held myself back, just barely. 
I heard it roar before I saw it. I felt the impact of its footsteps coming up through the soles of my CMC. But I waited. Partially because I knew I needed to get it chasing me, but also because I was feeling the communion. I heard the chants of van Rijn's nutcases in the back of my head, and I felt the ultralisk's roar like the call of a god. 
Then it tore out of the jungle into the clearing, and I woke up real fast. 
I also ran real fast. When I passed the vespene bomb, I called out, "Set it off in ten! Repeat, ten!" Then I skidded through sloppy gravel, splashed through the shallows of the stream running out of the ravine, and set some kind of galactic record for climbing at a dead sprint in marine armor. 
I'd been well ahead of the ultralisk when I started running. Now it was close enough that if I slowed to look over my shoulder, it'd be the last thing I ever did. I could swear I felt it breathing down my neck, but that might have been an effect of the communion spores. 
My men started firing down from their positions at the very head of the ravine; I'd kept them back so the explosion didn't drop them down in the middle of a rockslide. The C-14 spike sustains muzzle velocity pretty well up to a few hundred meters, and I heard impacts on the ultralisk's hide. 
You want to know what's crazy? I also kind of wanted to stop. I was still hearing "Great One, Great One, Great One..." and I wanted communion. 
But the shockwave from the detonation blew that desire away. Then it knocked me flat on my face, hard enough to take chips out of my faceplate. I scrambled to my feet and kept running until rocks and pieces of trees stopped landing around me. Then I spun around just as a rolling cloud of smoke billowed up out of the ravine and obscured everything. "Torch Seven, report," I said. "Who's got visual observations?" 
"Now?" Haddawy said. "Nobody. Let me run— Yeah, infrared is showing fading heat signatures down there, but those are probably cooling rocks that were heated up by the explosion." 
"The ultralisk, marine! I don't care about rocks," I said. 
"I know, Sarge. Okay. The ultralisk... I don't know," he said. "I can't see it, but zerg don't always have good heat signatures anyway." 
It had started raining, I noticed belatedly, and the smoke was swirling away in the breeze accompanying the storm front. "Hold," I said to the platoon, and held myself too, looking down the ravine as the smoke cleared. 
The explosion had collapsed the whole bottom third of the ravine. If we hadn't had our faceplates down, it would have blown our eardrums even from three hundred meters away. The echoes were still dying away as the last of the smoke dissipated in the rain. I 
couldn't see the ultralisk, or any motion. 
I climbed the rest of the way to where the remains of Torch Seven held a position just above the head of the ravine. From there you couldn't see down to ground zero of the vespene bomb. "Jouvert," I said. "Take a peek." 
Jouvert headed for the first ledge on the right-hand side. He tested the ledge to see if it had been loosened by the explosion, then stepped out onto it. I could see him running scans in various wavelengths. He was a good scout. 
There was a rumble from down in the ravine as rocks settled in the aftermath of the explosion. 
Then Jouvert dropped his scanner and ran. 
Right behind him came the ultralisk. 
We opened up as the ultralisk charged over the lip of the ravine and tore Jouvert to pieces with a back-and-forth double swipe of its blades. While his limbs were still flying, C-14 spikes were hammering into the ultra's head and front legs. 
The colonists took advantage of the situation as their four guards decided ultralisk duty was more important than herding them. Crying out, "Great One!", they ran toward it. Toward it. And they died, man. 
Right in the middle of it all came the call: "Torch Seven, this is your extraction alert. Rendezvous previous drop point immediately." 
"We are under attack," I answered. This was not the same comm officer I'd talked to the last time. I could have argued about why we were getting this call when we'd been told we weren't going to get this call, but those conversations never went anywhere with staff officers. "Will reach drop point ASAP." We were in fact only about a klick from it. 
"Torch Seven, what is the nature of the attack?" 
"Ultralisk." 
"Repeat." 
"I said it's a goddamn ultralisk, Scion! The same goddamn one I told you about before! You said Vygoire was clear, but I've got marines in pieces down here!" 
The comm officer ignored this. They're professionals at ignoring things. "Status of the lab personnel?" 
The ultra had closed the distance and was now among us. I could see that the explosion and rockfall had taken a toll on it. Zerg ichor was leaking from fractures in its carapace, and its left rear leg was clearly broken. "Concentrate fire on that leg!" I ordered. 
"What was that, Torch Seven?" 
"Wasn't talking to you, Scion." I started shooting at the ultralisk, and after everything that had happened, that was the moment I let it get too close. It reared up over a group of van Rijn's "children," its kaiser blades spread and then lashing down into them. They raised their arms to meet it. Cries of "Great One!" rang over the field and in my head, too. I even heard it in the comm. Some of my marines were saying it even as they shot at the ultralisk. I was covered in bits of van Rijn's people. Vera was at the edge of the field. I remember seeing her standing apart, close enough to the lab complex to make a break for it if necessary but close enough to the battle to see what was happening. She was studying. 
Studying the communion. 
"Extraction cannot commence with an ultralisk in the area, Torch Seven. We are aborting." 
At least he agreed with the last comm guy about that. And I didn't have time to argue 
about it because a backswing from one of the ultralisk's kaiser blades knocked me down, denting the side of the armor's torso hard enough to crack my ribs. I hit and rolled, the ultralisk's pillar-like foot slamming into the ground next to my head and splattering mud and blood across my faceplate. I thought it was about to stomp my brains out the way it had Twohy's. 
Then it charged ahead, over me. As it passed, I jammed my C-14 into the hollow behind its left front leg and ripped off a long burst. Ichor exploded from the wound, splattering all the places on my faceplate that didn't already have mud on them. I was blind, but I could hear it somehow, hear its fury and its pain. The ultra's momentum tore the C-14 from my hands, and it kept going, cutting a trail through the rest of my men on its way to the cultists. I heard them in my mind, dying. 
Scrambling to my feet, I swiped the mud and ichor from my faceplate in time to see the ultralisk bear down on its most devoted worshiper. "GREAT ONE!" van Rijn screamed out, loud and long, and I swear his voice was still sounding after the ultralisk scythed his body into eight or ten bloody pieces with an X-pattern sweep of its kaiser blades. They snicked against each other as they passed through van Rijn's torso, with a scraping sound that set my teeth on edge right through the filters in the CMC audio sensors. 
The cultists treated the ultralisk like they were teenagers, and it was the latest holo heartthrob. They fell on it, clinging to its sides and throwing themselves under its feet. It was killing them as fast as it could, but the remnants of Torch Seven were still firing. They'd quit caring about the cultists as collateral damage, and they unloaded on the ultra with everything they had left. 
All the while the lead dropship pilot was yammering in my ear. "Torch Seven, 
rendezvous is right now. Repeat, rendezvous is right now. Scion requires status update on the surviving lab personnel." 
I got to my feet and got my C-14 back in my hands. It was coated and dripping purple with the ultralisk's blood. I wasn't sure it would fire. 
But the ultralisk was dying. 
I thought I might be too. Everything seemed washed in a hypercolored aura. My eyes were watering. I looked down at myself and realized I wasn't standing up anymore. The world started to spin, and I felt the consciousness of the ultralisk, dying and striving to live on pure rage alone. I think I was babbling something into the comm, and I know the dropship pilot was still talking. I heard her voice right along with the presence of the ultralisk's... mind isn't exactly the right word. I felt its presence in my head. 
I looked down at myself and noticed that one of my legs was pointing in a bad direction, the armor bent and broken around the knee joint. The ultra's nails, each as thick as my wrist, had gashed the surface in a twisted sunburst pattern. "You stepped on me," I said to the ultralisk. 
It didn't answer. It was too busy dying. I fell on my side and slapped at my Pig. "Torch Seven," I said. Or I think I said. "Torch Seven calling for communion." 
I meant to say extraction. But the Great One's dying... thoughts? ...were starting to speak for me. 
Yeah. That was the spores. I don't know how they work. I'm just trying to tell you what happened so that you can turn this ship around and burn that fekking ball of jungle and contagion before it gets anyone else. Spores. You can't see them. I've got them. How do you know you don't? 
How do you know Vera isn't carrying them, just because she doesn't get the communion? Let me tell you the rest of it. No, no, no, don't give me another shot. Don't... 
I got her on the ship. And the rest of Torch Seven. Thirty of us went down; nine came back. Where are the rest of my men? 
I'm about to go to sleep. Vera, Vera, don't let them... 
Great One. I can hear you. 
He's raving again. Is he going to survive the trip? And are there any surviving lab staff? 
We'll need data. 
We've got plenty of data right back there in the med-bay. I've already told the medics 
to stabilize only. We're not going to purge the spores. 
Dr. Langridge, you are the only one who is immune to the communion spore. 
So far. 
Doakes is on life support. He's calling for you whenever he's conscious. 
I told you: he's in quarantine, and that's hard when the spore is active. Once we can get 
him to a secure facility in a civilized part of the sector, we can... 
You have a sample, you're saying? You have enough to do what you want to do? 
Commander, I'm under strict orders to— 
Dr. Langridge, I have no interest in your orders. Whatever you do with this spore, 
you're going to do with the amount Doakes is carrying. Scion is nuking Vygoire as of now. 
Commander, I must insist— 
Dr. Langridge. You mentioned orders. Who from? 
I'm not at liberty to say. 
And you just happen to be immune to the spores? While you're researching them on 
orders you won't tell me about? 
It's time for this conversation to be over, Commander. 
He just asked a good question. Where are the rest of his men? 
Taken care of. Now, as I said, this conversation needs to be over. 
That guy in there fought an ultralisk. For you. 
For me? He's a marine. He did what he was told. Just like I am now. This is much bigger 
than him. Much, much bigger. He's a carrier now. That's all. You may make your report to 
Command. Tell them Vygoire is no longer a problem, and tell them to have a lab ready for me 
when we return. 

"Didn't actually happen. I got caught hacking into the Ministry of Finance's records. Was 
trying to fix something for a friend," he said, tearing a panel off the wall. From the recesses of 
his suit, he pulled a handheld device that didn't look like standard marine-issue hardware, and 
hooked it up to the wiring within. 
"They were going to resoc and enlist me as punishment. They told me that, and then left me 
alone in the room with the resoc console for ten minutes." 
"You mean you—" 
"Hacked the console. Thrashed around a lot in the tank to make it look good. " 
"Let me get this straight," Hanna said. "I've spent all this time feeling sorry for you, and you 
weren't brain-panned? How the hell do you expect us to ever trust you again?" 
"Whatever," Dax shrugged. "Mind if I save your asses anyway?" 
"Please do. Women everywhere will thank you," Vallen said, turning to the medic. "You're 
not going to say anything, are you?" 
"If he can get us to safety, I'll nominate him for emperor," Sawn said dryly. 
Caston walked over to Kell. He'd been ready to hit the man for something that wasn't his 
fault, and he needed to— 
"I know," Kell said, raising his head. His eyes were red-rimmed. "I was always joking around 
when we trained, joking when you were trying to warn us. They're dead because of me. I 
know." 
"That's not what I wanted to say. Look, the overlord came because I—" 
"Would you two girls shut up for a second?" Hanna said, striding past them down the dim 
hallway. Lights flickered. The recruits had stayed in the rooms nearest the lift, but the barracks 
had been built to house hundreds of ghosts and ghost recruits. The halls were long and dark, 
and full of echoes, and now... 
... something was scratching. 
"I hear it too," Kell said, pushing off his feet. "What do you think it is?" 
"I hope rats," Hanna said. 
Around the nearest bend, something screamed. 
"But probably not," Hanna said, unlimbering her rifle. "Dax, hurry up!" 
"Feel free to jump in anytime you figure out how to disarm an Omega-class facility 
lockdown." 
Two zerglings scrambled around the far corner, nipping and clawing at each other. Seeing 
the marines, they screamed again, and charged. 
Vallen, Caston, Kell, and Hanna opened fire. Gauss rounds tore blood from their backs, 
ripping at their wings, and still they came, oblivious to the pain. A lucky shot smashed the skull 
of the nearest, and it skidded to a boneless stop. Caston's rifle clicked dry, and this time he 
didn't have any more magazines. The remaining zergling leapt between the marines, heading 
for Dax and the unarmored Sawn... 
... who leaned Dax's rifle against the elevator wall, braced her legs against the recoil and 
fired a single shot. 
The zergling burst apart. 
The marines stared. 
Kell laughed first, and Caston and Hanna joined him when Vallen flinched at the unexpected 
sound and dropped his rifle. Vallen snickered as he awkwardly bent to retrieve it. Even Sawn 
snorted her amusement while massaging her aching shoulder. 
Glancing over his shoulder in annoyance at the interruption, only Dax saw the other six 
zerglings round the corner. 
Insectoid wings fluttering, they struck Vallen all together, squealing and slashing. Wide 
ribbons of blood arced up the walls and over the ceiling. Vallen went down without another 
sound. 
With a running start, Kell kicked three of the zerglings off Vallen, and fired, screaming 
wordlessly. They evaporated in clouds of blood and claw beneath the barrage. Hanna tried to 
pull Vallen clear, recoiling when a zergling shrieked and took her suit's mechanical hand off at 
the wrist. She cursed, stomped it flat against the steel beside the spreading pool of Vallen's 
blood, and fired a burst one-handed into its skull. 
Her rifle went dry just as the zergling stopped moving. 
Caston stood motionless. He was failing again. One by one, he was failing. 
Then he grabbed the nearest zergling by the tail and swung it against the wall again and 
again until nothing was left but featureless flesh. 
Distantly Kell's rifle fired an extended burst and clicked dry. Caston turned to see Kell kick 
the last zergling off Vallen's chest. 
Claw wounds marred Vallen's armor in the dozens. The neosteel floor was visible through 
his body. Sawn hissed and shook her head. 
"Dax," Hanna croaked, staggering back towards the lift. 
"I know," Dax said. "Almost done." 
"We're not," Kell said, staring back up the hallway. 
The hydralisk's crested head nearly reached the ceiling. With a metallic slithering sound, it 
surged forward, twitching and shuddering as if stung by millions of invisible insects. 
"Corporal!" Hanna said, storming back towards the lift. "The rifle!" 
"Save the ammo," Kell said, and charged. 
Caston should have yelled, should have told him that he didn't need to redeem himself. It 
wasn't his fault. 
But the words froze in his throat, and he couldn't move. 
"Caston! Get the hell out of the way!" Hanna roared from behind him, but Kell had already 
leapt in, grabbing hold of the creature's crest and hauling its head down as the insane hydralisk 
raked long gashes on his backplate. The hydralisk focused on Caston, tusked jaws slavering with 
hunger and recognition. It hunched over, exposing the glittering darkness between flesh and 
carapace, and armor-piercing spines flew at him. 
It couldn't miss at this range if it was aiming for him. It wasn't aiming for him. The spines 
hissed past, nicking his armor, and Corporal Sawn screamed behind him. Meat slithered onto 
the floor. 
The hydralisk leaned backwards, thrashing its serpentine tail, and rammed its claws into 
Kell's gut clear through his armor, over and over. Reaching up with trembling hands, Kell seized 
the bottom and top jaws of the hydralisk, and wrenched them apart with a wet crack. 
They fell together. 
Kell's faceplate irised open. His mouth worked, but only blood came out. He smiled. 
"It wasn't your fault," Caston said, dropping beside him. "It was mine. Do you hear me? It 
was mine." 
But Kell's smile was fixed, and his eyes were empty. 
Staggering back to his feet, Caston turned, dreading everything that was waiting there for 
him. 
Sawn must have seen the spines coming, and turned instinctively. The spine had struck her 
from the side, nearly bisecting her. The others had pinned Dax against the lift wall. He lay in a 
field of red. 
"Lift's ready to go," he said, and exhaled once. He didn't inhale. 
"Why didn't you move, Caston?" Hanna said, shoving him. "Why didn't you move?" 
"It's my fault," Caston said dully. 
Hanna stood still, then opened her faceplate. Even with exhaustion and grief warring across 
her face, her glare was magnificent. "We're the only two left, and you're not going catatonic on 
me, Gage," she said. "So listen. 
"You didn't make the zerg the hungry sons of bitches they are. You didn't even start the 
war. They did. You have nothing to apologize for." 
But he did. She was only partly right: he hadn't fired the first shot. He'd just fired the next 
one. 
Hanna dragged him back towards the lift with her suit's remaining hand, cursing at him and 
the world in general. She was saying something about lying low, then hunting the overlord 
down when reinforcements came. He was pretty sure he responded. 
The doors closed. Caston looked at his feet. Blood rippled around them. 
The lift descended haphazardly into the depths of the academy, coming to a sudden, 
shuddering halt every few floors. While Hanna grimly outlined their revenge, Caston watched 
the floors flicker past like images on a projector, flinching each time the doors hissed open and 
slammed shut. 
Crumpled skeletons in tattered Confederate uniforms, trapped when Tarsonis fell. 
sssssshChunk 
At the end of a short corridor, a glass wall covered in red-veined flesh. 
sssssshChunk 
A long hallway strung with hot, pale lights. The farthest one failed. Then the next. The next. 
Then the darkness rushed towards them like a landslide— 
sssssshChunk 
The lift freefell for several seconds before juddering to a stop with a stench of burning 
plastic and metal. The open doors were only around halfway up their waists. The flickering 
display read, "Z." 
"... with a flamethrower and step on them. You hear me, Caston?" 
"I hear you," Caston said, reaching down to the open doors on Z level. Together, he and 
Hanna pulled the elevator down to the last level, lowered their visors, and stepped through. 
Silence ruled down here. Intermittent grime-stained lights gave the neosteel a yellow tint. A 
sign reading "Security Control" pointed down the branching hallway. 
"There's gotta be a working console in there," Hanna said. "We'll call for help, then look 
around for emergency stairs." 
Caston let her take the lead, since she had the only rifle with ammo left. She turned a 
corner. He had a feeling that their search for stairs wasn't going to go well. Those Confederate 
soldiers wouldn't have starved to death if there'd been any stai— 
Wait. 
If there were no stairs, how had the zerglings and the hydralisk attacked them? 
A sly scratching in the wall behind them was their only warning. 
The zerg roach sprang onto the neosteel and skidded, spraying sparks as its six talons fought 
for purchase. It hissed triumphantly from within the spiked safety of its thick carapace. Hanna 
wheeled about, leveling the C-14 awkwardly over her suit's handless forearm. 
"Down, Caston!" 
Caston had no intention of letting her face it alone. He had no intention of surviving this 
planet, come to that. He lunged at the towering roach, reaching out with both hands to hold it 
still so that Hanna could take her shot... 
With a contemptuous swipe of its bulky body, the roach knocked him against the wall with a 
bang of steel on steel. Hanna fired, and the gauss rounds skipped and sparked off the roach's 
armor... 
It reeled back, maws gaping. Time slowed. Hanna threw the rifle to Caston... 
The roach unleashed a flood of acid. 
Hanna stumbled backwards choking, her entire front half covered in the bubbling green 
fluid. She sat down heavily on the floor, legs splayed, then fell backward. 
Talons dancing, the roach turned to Caston. It opened its mouth again, and the bile surged 
at the back of its throat... 
A missile of pure thought plunged from the sky down into the dark hallway beneath the 
ground. The roach shuddered and stared at him, slavering. 
Then it bashed its head against the neosteel into a raw and mangled pulp. 
Unspeakably weary, Caston inched his back up the wall behind him. He stumbled past the 
roach's corpse to Hanna. The acid had eaten through her armor into the ground below. Nothing 
recognizably human remained. 
With Hanna's rifle dangling from his hand, Caston eased his way along the wall to the hole 
the roach had ambushed them from. It was more than wide enough for him. 
His chest illuminators carved through the narrow darkness. The shaft led at an angle away 
from the academy until neosteel became soil, hardened to a resilient crust by the roach's 
secretions. The tunnel began spiraling upward, and Caston followed it for half an hour. At some 
point, the spiral branched horizontally back toward the academy, and Caston knew that if he 
followed it, he'd find Kell and Vallen's bodies lying where they fell. 
He kept climbing until he was back on the surface, outside the academy. 
The overlord was waiting for him. 
Unblinking, red-rimmed green eyes held him and judged him. Wild hatred billowed from its 
scarred bulk like heat from a furnace. Behind it, the melted ruins of the academy raked at the 
sky. 
With painstaking effort, and without breaking eye contact, the overlord unfurled an 
underclaw and scratched a long, wavering line in the soil at Caston's feet. 
He stared down at it. Understanding came. 
One. The overlord had left him alive on purpose. They were both alone now. 
The overlord held his gaze a moment longer. Then its side expanded, and it rose, turning 
away. 
Caston raised his rifle. And faltered. 
It had left him alive on purpose. It wanted him to kill it. He had killed the other overlord, 
and Green Eyes wanted to die because of it. Why would a zerg care...? 
He remembered them huddled together as if talking. Against his will, he thought of the 
unusual intelligence of the creature, and how Berry had said that the overlords' original species 
were capable of living for hundreds of years. He wondered if it was possible that an infested 
creature could regain its memories, its sentience, if separated from the Swarm. 
And how wonderful it might be to find someone you remembered at the other end of 
centuries full of horrors... 
With a disgusted cry, he flung the rifle away. 
I rise back towards the divided horizon. My death does not come. I wish it did. 
I do not want to remember. I do not want to be One anymore. 
I do not want to be I anymore. 
I do not want to mourn. 
I cross the horizon line. I return to the embrace. I... 
Pain 
I... 
I? 
we. 
In the calm embrace of the We, hang we. Return, will the Kerrigan. This, know we. 
Nothing else, is there. 
we do not want to remember. 
Overlords, are we. 
Caston had dug and filled the eight graves by the time the sun rose. He left his empty armor 
beside them and walked off into the ghost of the Confederate capital. A rescue team would 
come eventually, and he didn't want to be rescued. Rescue meant resocialization. 
Resocialization meant forgetting, and he didn't want to forget. 
Movement caught his eye, and he looked up. 
Far above the ruined world, the overlord rose into the dawn, glowing a rich sky blue. 
The second baneling the overlord dropped hit the landing pad. The dropship and the 
unfortunate pirates' cruiser erupted in a tower of green-tinged fire. 
"Pile into the lift right now!" Bayton shouted, and slammed a fist against the panel. With a 
gentle ping, the doors of the academy's only working lift opened. Sawn went first, almost 
instinctually. Caston followed, beginning to understand how this unarmored medic had lived 
long enough to get that thousand-yard stare. 
Vallen, Hanna, and Dax followed. Kell still hadn't moved. With a growl, Bayton grabbed hold 
of the stunned marine, shoved him into the too-crowded lift, and pressed a button on the 
inside. 
"Dax." 
"Sarge?" 
"I need you to cut the shit and get everyone down to the lowest level. You copy?" 
"Yes, Sarge. How did you know?" 
"Please. I've seen a thousand Daxes. I'm a sergeant, Private." 
"Are... are you getting in the lift, Sarge?" Hanna said. 
Bayton smiled. "Use your eyes, Private Saul. No space." 
The door slid shut, and they descended. 
By the shuddering of the lift, the next baneling corpse struck the observation deck dead 
center. 
I descend. Fire and smoke rise to meet me. 
I hear the silence of the dead. I hear the thoughts of the living. 
His punishment is not finished yet. 
From the larvae, I call a digger and a spinebearer. From the larvae, I call the many-ones. 
I hold them with my will, and I send them. Agony. 
The lift doors opened on the barracks hallway, A level, which was underground, but not far 
enough for any of their liking. 
"Everyone out," Dax said. "I need space to work." 
"What was Sergeant Bayton talking about?" Vallen said as they piled out. Kell moved farther 
along the hall and hunkered against the wall. 
"Well, that resocialization I went through?" 
"Yes?" 
A hundred feet west of the academy, a green blur streaked through the hollow interior of a 
skeletal skyscraper and exploded. Its foundation obliterated, the skyscraper struck the concrete 
with a hollow, teeth-rattling boom and fell over, turning a quarter mile of abandoned buildings 
into a churning furrow of thick gray smoke and jagged debris. 
With dry mouths, the marines turned away from the devastation and looked up at the 
hidden sky. 
"Absolutely," Vallen said. 