“We met Pam in the chess circle yesterday,” Sarah says, as we cross West Third and head
toward West Fourth. “At least, I think we did. Someone who looks just like her. Right,
Sebastian?”
“Right,” Sebastian says. “She asked all about the GSC. And took some of our literature.”
“She couldn’t have,” I say. “That’s impossible. She wouldn’t have been in New York
yesterday morning. She can’t have gotten here that fast. She lives in Iowa.”
“Illinois,” Cooper corrects me.
“Whatever,” I say. “She showed up at Fischer Hall this morning with her suitcase.”
Sarah looks confused. “Well, then who was that lady yesterday, Sebastian?”
“I don’t know.” Sebastian shakes his head. “I’m so tired. I can’t think straight anymore.”
“Poor baby.” Sarah reaches out and strokes the fuzz that’s beginning to sprout on Sebastian’s
cheeks. Apparently they don’t give you razors in Rikers. “Let’s get you to bed. You’ll feel
better in the morning.”
“Can’t,” Sebastian says weakly. “We’ve got to get to the rally.”
“The GSC can get along without you for one night,” Sarah surprises me by saying.
“No,” Sebastian says. He sounds immeasurably weary. “It’s my responsibility. I’ve got to
go.”
“Well,” Sarah says resignedly. “Let’s change first. We can’t go in these clothes.”
  
We’ve reached the park. The roar from the protest is much louder now. We can see the crowd
over by the Washington Square Arch, where a temporary stage has been set up. Someone is
on the stage, urging the crowd through a megaphone to chant, “What do we want?”
“Equal rights!”
“When do we want them?”
“Now!”
Dusk has fallen. It’s a warm evening, so the usual misfits are out and about—the
skateboarders, the bongo players, the runaways with their dogs (why do they always have
dogs?), the young couples in love, the drug dealers, the bickering old men in the chess circle.
And the cops, of course. The park is swarming with them, thanks to the union rally.
And there, parked in front of Owen’s building, exactly where it had been this afternoon, is the
Ryder truck. Only now the doors to the back are closed. Whoever has rented it is getting
ready to drive it away.
That’s good, because there’s no overnight parking this side of the park.
“If I write a guest pass for Sebastian,” Sarah is saying to me, “will you sign it, Heather?”
“Sarah,” I say, annoyed. I just want to get Cooper home and into bed. I’ll have to wake him
up every two hours—neither of us is going to get much sleep tonight. But when I think how
close I came to losing him entirely, I can’t help shuddering. He could have broken his spine
in that stairwell. Or worse.
“I know,” Sarah says. “I know we’re supposed to hand them in twenty-four hours in advance.
But how was I supposed to know he’d be out?” Her dark eyes are wide and appealing in the
deepening twilight. “Please?”
I sigh. “All right,” I say. “Coop, mind if we make a pit stop?”
“Sure,” Cooper says. “You go on. I’m going home.”
“Coop.” This concussion thing hasn’t exactly done any wonders for his personality. “I’ll just
be a minute.”
“And I’m a grown man,” Cooper points out. “Who can make his own way to his house
around the corner from here.” Then, seeing my crestfallen expression, he reaches out to ruffle
my hair—never a welcome gesture, by the way—and says, “Heather. I’ll be fine. I’ll see you
at home.”
The next thing I know, he’s limping away.
Sarah peers after him, chewing her lip nervously.
  
“I’m really sorry,” she says, when she turns to see me staring daggers at her. “This is so nice
of you. Especially after everything I’ve done. I know I don’t deserve—”
“Just go inside,” I interrupt. And follow her into the building.
Fischer Hall has a different rhythm at night than it does during the day. About which I can
only say—thank God I work days. Most of the residents are in class or still sleeping when I
get in at nine, and the majority of them don’t get in—or get up—until I leave at five. When
they’re home, the way they are now, the lobby is buzzing with activity, teenagers
Rollerblading, signing in guests, pounding the elevator keys, complaining about the television
reception in the lobby, calling upstairs to their friends, cursing at their mail, shrieking hello to
one another…in other words, the place is a zoo. I don’t know how the hall directors, whose
positions are live-in, stand it. Some of them, like Simon Hague, cope by turning into
unctuous weasels.
Others, however, maintain their cool simply by letting it all roll off their backs, like Tom.
I’ve always hoped that I’d be that kind of hall director, if by some miracle I happened to get
my bachelor’s degree and then my master’s and then a director’s position (though heaven
help me if this should ever occur).
Others turn into Type A bureaucrats like Owen. And I have a feeling that’s how I’d turn out. I
can feel my blood pressure going up just looking at the scuff marks the wheels of those
Rollerblades are making on the marble floors. Julio is going to have a coronary when he
comes back to work and sees them in the morning, I just know it.
Then I remember he won’t be coming in. Because of the strike.
“Here you go, Sebastian,” I say, when I’ve filled out the guest pass and handed it to him.
“Knock yourself out.”
Sebastian looks down at the pass. “Wow,” he says. For a minute, he looks a lot less like a
suspected killer and the leader of a student revolution than just a scared kid who got into
something that’s way over his head. “Thanks a lot, Heather. You have no idea how much this
means to me. I mean, I know Sarah told you about my roommate situation, and my parents
got me a hotel room, but…It’s nice for me to be able to stay with Sarah. She…she means a
lot. I just didn’t realize how much until recently.”
Embarrassed, Sarah looks down at the pointed toes of her high heels, blushing prettily,
seemingly unaware of Sebastian’s gaze on her. I am torn between wanting to hurl and
wanting to throw my arms around them. They’re just so…cute.
And I realize I’m feeling something else, a third thing. Envy.
I want that. What they have.
I thought I had it. Sort of. But fortunately, I realized in time that I didn’t. Not that I was in
any real danger of doing anything foolish about it, like getting married, or hiking the
Appalachian Trail for the summer.
Still. I’d like what the two of them have. Someday.
  
I settle for saying, gruffly, “Well, remember, you two—practice safe sex. And Sarah, you’re
still on duty. If the RA calls, you have to respond, no matter what.”
Sarah’s blush deepens. “Heather,” she says to the floor. “Of course.”
A resident, hearing my name, inhales deeply, and rushes over.
“Oh my God, are you Heather Wells?” she cries.
I look heavenward for strength. “Yes. Why?”
“Oh my God, I know the hall office is closed, but my cousin showed up from out of nowhere,
I swear, and I need a guest pass, and if you could make an exception, just this once, and sign
one for me, I would be forever in your debt—”
I point at Sarah. “She’s the girl you want to see. I’m out of here.”
And I make my way out of the lobby and back out into the fresh evening air.
Standing in the blue light cast from the building’s security lamp, I look out across the park,
trying to ignore the clusters of smokers whose voices drop to a whisper when they see me,
recognizing me as a “narc.” The chanting over by the arch has changed to “Union contract
now! Disrespect us never!” It’s a mouthful, but they seem to be enjoying themselves.
It’s a beautiful evening—too beautiful to turn in so early. On the other hand, now that my
dad’s moved out, I have a dog to walk…not to mention a semiconcussed private detective to
look after.
I wonder what I’d do if I were a normal single girl in the city—like Muffy. Go out for
cocktails, no doubt, with my girlfriends. Of course, I don’t have any girlfriends. Well, that’s
not true. But my single girlfriend is busy stalking one of our coworkers and his kids, and my
married girlfriend is too hormonal to be any fun.
I can’t help looking at that Ryder truck. It’s still sitting down the street.
What’s going to happen to Muffy, I can’t help wondering, after the strike is over? I mean, it’s
going to have to end eventually. The president isn’t going to settle for having a giant
inflatable rat sitting outside his office for long. She won’t lose her job, of course, which
should be a relief to her—she won’t have to give up her apartment, which she sold all that
wedding china for. But what will she do all day?
Well, I guess she can start training for that hike with Tad. They do make a cute couple. It’s
true they have even less in common than he and I do. I can’t imagine Muffy on the
Appalachian Trail. How is she going to make her hair all big like that without a blow dryer?
And I can’t see Tad ever developing an interest in china patterns.
But people can change.
Someone always benefits from murder. That’s what Cooper said, while standing not very far
from where I’m standing now. Always.
  
And, just like that, it hits me. I suppose it was there all along, just simmering on the edge of
my subconsciousness, like how I really felt about Tad all along. But I kept pushing it away,
for whatever reason…probably because it just wasn’t convenient for me to deal with.
This time, however, I let it in.
And it stays.
And I know I have to deal with it.
Now.
I turn on my heel.
Only instead of turning left, toward Waverly and home, I turn right, toward Owen’s building,
and that Ryder truck. I keep walking, straight into the building where Pam is staying. I walk
right up to the doorman, and ask him to buzz Owen’s apartment.
“Whom may I say is calling?” he asks. He’s one of Rosetti’s men, trying hard to make a good
impression—not easy, with a toothpick in his mouth.
“Tell her it’s Heather,” I say.
“Sure,” he says. A second later, when Pam picks up the intercom phone, he does just that.
Pam, sounding surprised, tells him to let me up.
I don’t know why I do what I do next. All I know is that I’ve begun to shake. Not with fear.
With anger.
All I can think about is that stupid rag doll sweatshirt she’d been wearing…the one with the
black rag doll and the white rag doll holding hands.
It’s weird what you think about when your boss’s life is flashing before your eyes.
I march toward the elevator. Owen’s building—which he happened to share with President
Allington and his wife—is nothing like Fischer Hall. It’s elegant, all marble and brass and
quiet—absolutely quiet—this time of the evening. There is no one else in the elevator with
me. I can’t even hear the GSC rally in the car. My ride to the sixth floor, where Owen lived,
is silent until the bell rings—ding!—to indicate our arrival—and the doors slide back.
Then I step out into the hallway and go to apartment 6–J. Owen’s apartment.
Pam has the door open before I even knock.
“Heather!” she says, with a smile. She’s changed out of the black suit she’d been wearing at
the memorial service. And, yes, she’s back in the rag doll sweatshirt. Like some sweatshirt
showing interracial rag dolls holding hands is supposed to bring harmony to the universe.
  
“What a surprise!” she cries. “I wasn’t expecting you. Did you stop by to check up on me? I
suppose because of that fracas at the memorial service. Wasn’t that horrible? I couldn’t
believe that happened. Please, won’t you come in?”
I follow her inside the apartment. Just as I had suspected, it’s gone. All of it. The china, I
mean. Every last speck of the blue and white patterned china Owen had had on display in the
hutch in the dining room is missing.
So is the hutch it was sitting on.
“This is just so sweet of you,” Pam goes on. “Owen always did say the nicest things about
you—how thoughtful and kind you were to the students. I see it extends beyond your
professional life, as well. But, please, you needn’t worry about me. I’m fine. Really. Would
you like a cup of coffee? Or herbal tea? It’s no trouble. I was just about to make some for
myself.”
I turn to face her. I see that Garfield is curled up on the couch, sleeping. Pam had clearly been
sitting next to him. The television is on, and the remote lays next to the cat. She’d been
watching Entertainment Tonight.
“Where is it?” I ask her. My voice is hoarse. I have no idea why.
She looks at me blankly. “Where is what, dear?”
“You know what,” I say. “Is it in that truck downstairs?”
She still looks blank—but a tinge of color appears in each of her cheeks. “I…I’m afraid I
don’t know what you’re talking about, Heather.”
“The china,” I say. “The wedding china Owen got in the divorce settlement. The wedding
china you killed him for. Where is it?”
21
Friday’s guy’s not gonna call
Saturday’s guy’s not into girls at all
But Sunday’s guy is the worst of all
He’s glued to the set and that dang football
“Guys of the Week”
Written by Heather Wells
“Just give me the keys,” I say, holding out my hand.
  
For a minute Pam just looks at me with a very surprised expression on her face. Then she
throws back her head and laughs.
“Oh…you!” she says, reaching out to give me a little push. “Owen always said you were a
kidder. In fact, he said you spent so much time kidding around, sometimes he worried about
you getting the job done.”
Now that—as opposed to the typing thing—I believe Owen actually said.
“I’m not kidding,” I say. “And you know it. Give me the keys, Pam. I’m not letting you get
away with this. And you know the cops aren’t going to, either. You can’t just pack up a
murder victim’s stuff and drive away with it. I’m sure there’s some kind of protocol that has
to be followed—”
Pam stops laughing. But she’s still smiling. There’s something a little stiff about the smile—
like she’s turned into a jack-o’-lantern.
Or Muffy Fowler.
“Protocol,” she repeats, with a humorless little chuckle. “Now you’re starting to sound just
like Owen.”
“Look, Pam,” I say. I can’t believe it took me so long to notice, but this lady is nuttier than a
slice of Fischer Hall coffee cake.
I know I’m going to need to tread carefully here. But I’m not particularly worried, because I
know where the murder weapon is—in an evidence locker in the DA’s office downtown. I’m
safe. There’s nothing she can do to me. I suppose she can try to take a swing at me, but I’m at
least ten years younger, and twenty pounds lighter. I could easily take her in a fight, if it
comes to that. I’m actually longing for her to take a swing at me.
It’s true I didn’t like Owen all that much.
But I liked walking into my office and finding his dead body even less. And nothing would
give me more pleasure than punching the person who is responsible for making me go
through all that.
“Don’t play with me,” I say. “I know you killed him. I know you didn’t get in today, like you
pretended. I know you were actually here yesterday. You were spotted in the chess circle
across the street, you know.”
Pam stares at me, her lips slightly parted. She’s still smiling, though. “That…that’s just
baloney,” she says.
Seriously. Baloney. That’s what she said. Not bullshit. Baloney. Priceless.
“I know you planted that gun on Sebastian Blumenthal,” I go on. “Just like I know you and
Owen were fighting over your wedding china. Owen told me all about it. He wanted it. God
knows why. Probably because you did, and he wanted to punish you for divorcing him, and
because he was completely lacking in imagination, it was the only way he could think to get
  
back at you. I don’t know when you got to town, but I can’t imagine it will be too hard for the
police to figure it out. What did you do, rent the truck and drive here? Then bide your time
until you found Owen alone, then blew his head off? Is that how it went?”
Pam is shaking her head slowly, her graying mom haircut still so carefully styled from the
memorial service that it doesn’t move an inch.
“You,” she says, still smiling, “are a very creative person. It must be your background in
show business.”
“That’s called premeditation, you know, Pam,” I inform her. “And it’s probably going to get
you life in prison. And the part where you planted the murder weapon on an innocent person?
That’s going to get you life without parole.”
Pam is still shaking her head. But when I get to the part about how she planted the gun on
Sebastian, she stops shaking her head, and just stares at me. The weird part is, she’s still
smiling.
But the smile doesn’t go all the way up to her eyes. It’s like her lips are just frozen that way.
“I can’t believe,” she says, through that cold, creepy smile, “you’re on his side.”
I stare at her. “Whose side?”
“You know whose,” she says. “Owen’s. You worked with him. Every day—in the same
office! You saw what he was like. Like a robot, with his agendas and itineraries and
appointment calendars. The man was inhuman!”
I blink at her. The smile is finally gone. The bright spots of color on either of her cheeks have
spread, and now her whole face is red. Her eyes—once a soft hazel—are beginning to glitter
with a sort of manic intensity I’m not sure I like. She doesn’t look like a gentle potter
anymore. She looks a little psycho, if you ask me.
I take a step backward. Maybe this wasn’t such a good idea after all.
“Uh,” I say. “You’re the one who married him.”
“Yes, I married him,” Pam spits. “I met him in college, back when I was an art major, a real
wild child, into drugs and partying and sexual experimentation, and he was my resident
assistant, and straight as an arrow, and I felt like I needed a little of that to calm me down.
What I didn’t need, however, was to be smothered! To be creatively stifled for twenty years!
Except that that’s what happened…until I finally got the guts to leave him. And, yes, you’re
right—he did insist on taking the china—my beautiful china. Not because he cared about it.
But because he knew I loved it. To punish me for leaving him! Well, I got it in the end, didn’t
I?”
But I’m already shaking my head.
“No,” I say. “No, you won’t. Because it’s wrong, and you know it, Pam. I’m not letting you
take it. Give me the keys.”
  
She’s weeping openly now, tears spilling out of those hazel eyes, and dropping down onto the
fabric aprons the rag dolls are wearing.
“I…I…” is all she seems able to say.
I hold out my hand. “Come on, Pam,” I say, in my most soothing tone. “Give me the keys.
I’m sure we can work something out with the DA. Battered wife syndrome, or something.
Maybe they can send you to the same place they sent Martha Stewart. She got to do a lot of
crafts in there. You could still do your pottery.”
Pam lets out a sigh, and turns toward a chest of drawers.
“That’s it,” I say encouragingly, speaking to her in the same gentle but firm tone I use with
the anorexics we get periodically down in the office, and whom I have to urge to eat the
special, highly caloric muffins the nutritionists send over to fatten them up enough for what
we’re saying to make some sort of sense to their vitamin-deprived little brains. “You’re doing
the right thing—”
But when Pam turns around, I see to my dismay that it’s not a set of keys she’s holding in her
hand.
It’s a handgun.
And she’s pointing it right at me.
“You didn’t really think,” she says—and I see, with a lurch of my entrails, that the smile is
back—“that I only had the one gun, did you, Heather? I’m a country girl, you know. I grew
up around guns. I know how to use them—even if I think they’re entirely too easy to procure
for most people.”
I can’t believe this. What a phony she is! Her sweatshirt is totally lying! She doesn’t believe
in interracial harmony at all!
Well, okay, maybe she does.
But she doesn’t seem to have a problem with killing people. Including completely innocent
assistant residence hall directors.
“Pam,” I say, holding up both my hands. “You do not want to do this.”
“Actually,” Pam says, taking a step toward me. “I really do. Because by the time anyone
finds your body, I’ll be long gone. So killing you really isn’t a problem for me.”
I take an instinctive step back. But for every step I take away from her, Pam takes another
one forward. I’m looking around, wondering frantically what on earth I’m going to do. Owen
kept his apartment as fastidiously neat as he kept his office. Unlike my own place, there are
no stray objects lying randomly around that I can pick up and try to throw at my would-be
assassin—no whimsical lamp shaped like a mermaid, purchased at the local flea market for a
song, that would make a handy missile. No terrariums filled with sea-shells that I can heave
in her direction…
Not that I’d be likely to hit her. But it’s better than nothing.
The worst thing is, no one even knows I’m here, except for the moron with the toothpick at
the desk downstairs. And he doesn’t even work for the college. He works for Rosetti, and is
about as likely to notice the sound of a gunshot upstairs as he is likely to notice that his
multiple gold neck chains clashed with his many bracelets.
I’m basically a dead woman.
And for what? For Owen.
And I didn’t even like him!
Still, I have to try.
“This isn’t Iowa, Pam,” I inform her. “Someone’s going to hear a gun go off, and call the
cops.”
“I’m from Illinois,” Pam says. “And already thought of that.”
And she reaches down, picks up the phone that’s sitting next to the couch I’ve bumped into
(I’ve backed up as far as I can go), and dials 911.
“Hello, operator?” she says, in a breathless, panicky voice quite unlike her own, when
someone on the other end picks up. “Send the police right away! I’m calling from apartment
six–J at twenty-one Washington Square West. Former teen pop sensation Heather Wells has
gone crazy and broken into my apartment and is trying to kill me! She’s got a gun! Ah!”
Then she hangs up.
I stare at her in total astonishment.
“That,” I say, “was a big mistake.”
Pam shrugs. “This is New York City,” she says. “Do you know how long it’s going to take
them to get here? By the time they do, I’ll be long gone. And you’ll have bled to death.”
Pam obviously doesn’t realize what’s happening in the park approximately a hundred yards
from the entrance to her ex-husband’s apartment building.
And how many cops are out there as a consequence.
On the other hand, it won’t matter if two dozen cops storm apartment 6–J in the next twenty
seconds if she manages to put a bullet in my brain the way she did Owen’s.
Which is exactly what I realize she’s about to do when she raises the pistol she’s holding and
points it at my head.
“Good-bye, Heather,” she says. “Owen was right about you, you know. You really aren’t that
good of an administrator.”
  
Owen said that? Geez! Talk about ungrateful! And I was really helpful when he first started,
showing him the ropes and the best place to get a bagel (outside of the caf, of course), and
everything. And he said I wasn’t a good administrator? What was he even talking about? Has
he seen the binders I created at the reception desk, making the kids responsible for keeping
their own time sheets, so I don’t have to bother with it? And what about my innovative way
of getting the student workers to pay attention to what’s going on in and around the building,
the Fischer Hall Newsletter? Was Owen completely unaware of the fact that Simon Hague,
over in Wasser Hall, stole my idea, and invented his own student worker newsletter, and even
had the nerve to call it the Wasser Hall Newsletter?
Well? Was he?
But I don’t have a chance to process how I feel about this betrayal, because I’m busy ducking
the bullet Owen’s ex-wife has just fired at me. Ducking and, I’d like to add, diving over the
side of the couch and grabbing the one thing in the apartment I think might actually give me
half a chance to survive the next two minutes until the boys (and girls) in blue can get up here
and save my cellulite-ridden butt.
And that’s Garfield.
Who isn’t too happy about being snatched from his resting place on the sofa cushion, by the
way.
But then, the sound of a handgun going off at close proximity hadn’t made him particularly
happy, either.
Snarling and snapping, the great big orange tabby is doing his best to get away from me. But
I have him by the scruff of his neck with one hand, his sizable belly with the other. His
unsheathed and flailing claws are, fortunately, facing away from me. So there’s virtually no
way he can escape.
But no one’s told him that. He’s twenty-five pounds or so of pure enraged muscle. And he’s
taking it out on me. All I can taste and smell for a few seconds is fur and gunpowder,
especially when I practically land on him.
But I’m alive.
I’m alive.
I’m alive.
Pam is staring confusedly at the spot in which I’d been standing. Blinking, she turns, and
stares at the place to which I’ve leaped over the couch.
When she sees what I’m holding, her eyes widen.
“That’s right,” I say. My voice sounds oddly muted. That’s because the crack of the pistol
had been so loud, everything in relation now sounds completely muffled, including the
protests from the creature I’m holding, like the city after a record snowfall. “I’ve got
Garfield. Come any closer, Pam, and I swear, the cat gets it.”
  
The smile that had been playing across Pam’s face freezes. Her upper lip begins to twitch.
“You’re…you’re bl-bluffing,” she stammers.
“Try me,” I say. The stupid cat still won’t quit struggling. But over my dead body am I letting
go of him. Literally. “Pull that trigger again, and yeah, you might hit me. But I’ll still have
time to snap his neck before I go. I swear I’ll do it. I love animals—but not this one.”
And I do mean that. Especially as Owen’s cat’s fangs sink into my wrist. Ow! Stupid cat!
Wasn’t I the one who brought Pam over here to make sure he got his stupid pills? Talk about
ungrateful! Like pet, like owner.
Pam’s face twists in pain—even though I’m the one who’s bleeding.
“Garfield!” she cries, in anguish. “No! Let him go, you witch!”
Witch. Not bitch.
Priceless.
I’m not sure, given my state of semideafness. But I think I hear voices in the hallway.
Suddenly there’s pounding on the door to the apartment.
“Put the gun down, Pam,” I say, stalling for time. “Put the gun down, and no one—including
Garfield—will get hurt. It’s not too late to give yourself up.”
“You—you meanie!” Pam’s eyes are bright with tears. “All I wanted was what I deserved!
All I wanted was to make a clean start! Why can’t you just let the cat go, and we’ll call it
even? I’ll go—I’ll take Garfield, and go. Just give me a head start.”
“I can’t do that, Pam,” I say. “You already called the cops, remember? In fact—I think
they’re here.”
Pam spins around just as something that sounds like a small explosion goes off in the
hallway. A second later, four or five of New York’s Finest, their guns drawn, burst into the
living room.
I don’t think I’ve ever been so glad to see anyone before in my life. I’d have rushed over and
kissed them if I hadn’t been so busy concentrating on not getting my hands gnawed off.
“Ma’am!” the first cop cries, the mouth of his piece pointed at Pam’s chest. “Drop the gun,
lay down on the floor, and place your hands upon your head, or I will be forced to fire.”
I’m busy thinking it’s all over. I’m busy thinking, Swell, okay, she’s going to put the gun
down, and I can put this stupid cat down, and then I can go home, and this will be all over,
and I can go back to my boring little life, for which I will never again be ungrateful. I love
my boring little life. I love it. Thank God this is finally over.
Except it isn’t. Not by a long shot. No pun intended.
  
“You don’t understand,” Pam wails, waving her gun at me. “She has Garfield! She won’t let
go of Garfield!”
Oh God. No. Please, no.
“Ma’am,” the officer says again. “I’m asking you again to drop the gun, or I will be forced to
fire.”
Drop the gun, Pam. Pam, please. Just drop the gun.
“But I called you,” Pam insists, still waving the gun around. “She’s the one who threatened
me!”
The next thing I know, another shot’s been fired. I have no idea whose gun it’s come from, or
whether or not it strikes home, because I’ve hit the floor, clutching Garfield to me and curling
into as small a ball as I possibly can, with the thought of trying to make myself into the tiniest
target possible. The cat, for his part, has stopped trying to bite me, and is now clinging to me
as tightly as I’m clinging to him. If his ears are ringing anywhere near as loud as mine are, I
figure he has as little idea what’s going on as I do.
All I know is, it’s just me and Garfield, all alone in this world. Just me and him. All we have
is each other. I’m never letting go of him. And I’m pretty sure he’s never letting go of me.
It isn’t until someone lays a hand on my shoulder and shouts, “Miss! It’s all right to get up
now!” (apparently, he had to shout in order for me to hear him, since my hearing was so
blown on account of the gunfire) that I uncurl myself and look around to see that Pam’s gun
has been wrestled away from her—primarily because some excellent marksman has shot it
out from her fingers. She’s cradling her now useless and bloody fingers in her uninjured
hand, and blubbering out a confession to my old friend, Detective Canavan, who looks at me
tiredly above the semihysterical woman’s head.
Wedding china? he mouths.
I am in so much shock, I can’t even shrug. The truth is, I don’t get it, either. But then again,
there’s a lot I don’t seem to get. Like why, even though the police officers and EMTs keep
offering to take Garfield from me, I still can’t let him go. In my defense, he won’t let go of
me, either. It’s like we’re the only two stable beings in a world turned suddenly topsy-turvy.
I’m still holding on to him—and he to me—half an hour later when Detective Canavan
finally escorts me into the elevator and then out into the lobby. Flashing red lights from all
the cop cars parked outside Owen’s building reflect against the marble and brass—but that
isn’t the only difference between now and when I’d gone upstairs a few hours earlier.
Something else has changed as well. It takes me a minute to register what it is, and that’s
because my hearing still hasn’t quite recovered from the gunfire.
Then it hits me.
There’s screaming from the park.
Not chanting. Not cheering. Screaming.
  
I freeze with Detective Canavan’s hand on my back just as he’s about to escort me outside.
My statement done—I’d given it upstairs—he’d been about to walk me home.
But now I’m reluctant to step out the door. Not into that. No way.
“It’s okay, Heather,” he says encouragingly. “It’s just those kids who were rallying earlier.
They’re celebrating.”
“Celebrating,” I echo. “Celebrating what?”
“The president’s office apparently sent over a memo a little while ago. They settled their
differences.”
I blink. “They…settled?”
“That’s right,” Detective Canavan says. “The kids won. The president’s office conceded on
all points. Decided he’d had enough bad press lately. Either that, or he didn’t like having a
big rat sitting outside his office door. He’s never been over to the West Side, obviously.”
I blink with astonishment. “President Allington settled? The GSC won?”
“That’s what I hear,” Detective Canavan says. “We’ve got the whole precinct on hats and
bats, dealing with crowd control. We expect ’em to start tipping cars over any minute.
Helluva night you picked to get shot at. Ah, there’s the boyfriend. Right on time.”
And with that, Detective Canavan steers me out the door…
…and into the waiting arms of Cooper Cartwright.
22
There’s no matching
My face’s shade of red
The truth is out:
Without you, I’m dead.
“Seeing Red”
Written by Heather Wells
“So,” Cooper says, as the two of us sit in his kitchen, looking at Owen’s cat as he washes
himself on the mat beneath the sink, pointedly ignoring Lucy, who is regarding him worriedly
from beneath the kitchen table. “We have a cat now.”
“We don’t have to keep him,” I say. “I can see if Tom wants him. He seems like the kind of
cat Tom and Steve would like.”
  
“Ornery?” Cooper asks. “Mean?”
“Exactly,” I say. It’s nice of Cooper not to comment on the fact that I’ve already made him
go to CVS to buy a cat box, litter, and canned food. I’d even spent ten minutes in Owen’s
apartment before agreeing to leave hunting for Garfield’s pills, which Pam had packed away
in her overnight bag. It turned out, of course, she’d intended to take the cat with her when
she’d made her getaway.
The china wasn’t the only thing she’d loved that Owen had gotten in the divorce settlement, it
turned out.
“Let’s see how it goes,” Cooper says. “Though I really don’t think I can live with a cat called
Garfield.”
“I know,” I say miserably. “It’s kind of like having a dog named Fido or Spot, right? But
what could we call him instead?”
“I’m not sure,” Cooper says. “Pol Pot? Idi Amin?”
We’re sitting at the kitchen table with glasses of scotch on the rocks in front of us.
Considering what we’ve each been through, it seemed the only logical way to end the
evening.
“I guess the real question is, how long is he staying,” Cooper goes on. “I don’t want to give
him a name and get all attached to him—assuming one could get attached to something like
him—just to have him ripped away right when I’m starting to like having him around.”
“I’ll talk to Tom in the morning,” I say. I’m really tired. It’s been a long day. It’s been a long
week.
“That’s not exactly what I meant,” Cooper says.
Something in his tone causes me to look up. In the glow from the overhead kitchen light, I
notice that Cooper looks a lot better than I feel…and he’s been thrown down a flight of stairs,
whereas I’ve just been shot at.
It’s not fair. How come guys can go through so much more than us girls and come out
looking better for it?
“Did I tell you what the EMTs said, back at the sports center?” he asks, almost as if he’d been
reading my mind.
“No,” I say.
“My blood pressure’s a hundred and sixty-five over ninety-four,” he says.
“Well,” I say, taking a restorative sip of my scotch. I have to. Looking into his eyes has
caused my pulse to skitter unsteadily. It’s not fair. “You did suffer a debilitating fall.”
  
“I’m supposed to consult with my primary physician,” Cooper says. “High blood pressure
runs in my family, you know.”
I nod. “You can never be too careful. Hypertension is the silent killer.”
“You know what this means, though. No more Chips Ahoy! Nutella and Macadamia Brittle
sandwiches for me.”
I shrug. “If your doctor puts you on medication, you can have all you want.”
Cooper leans forward in his chair. “You’ve been home half an hour,” he says, “and you
haven’t even noticed.”
I blink at him from across the table. “Noticed what? What are you talking about?”
He points at the door to the back garden, which is located right next to the stove. For the first
time I notice that someone’s installed a large dog door in the middle of it.
“Oh my God!” I cry, leaping to my feet. “Cooper! When did you do that?”
Grinning, Cooper stands as well, and crosses the room to the door to show me how easily the
flap swings back and forth.
“After we got back from Rock Ridge. I ordered it a while ago. It only opens if you’re wearing
this special collar—that’s the security feature, you know, to keep crackheads from using it to
break in. It was really easy to install. The hardest part’s going to be getting Lucy to use it. But
I figured, with your dad gone, this’ll make it easier on you when you’re at work during the
day. She’ll still need her walks, but this way, if there’s an emergency, she can let herself out.
If she can figure out how to do it, I mean.”
I squat down to admire his handiwork. There are a few small gaps between where he sawed
and where the dog door actually slid into place. But it’s not the aesthetic quality of the job
that matters. It’s the fact that he’s done something—something permanent—to his home for
my dog.
“Cooper,” I say, embarrassed to find myself blinking back tears. I hope he doesn’t notice.
“This is so…sweet of you.”
“Well,” he says, looking uncomfortable. “I only got one security collar. I didn’t know we
were going to have two pets going in and out—”
“We’re not,” I assure him, glancing at Garfield, who has settled onto the kitchen mat and is
glaring at Lucy—still cowering under the kitchen table—with balefully glowing yellow eyes.
“I’ll find him a new home in the morning. Besides, he’s an indoor cat, I’m pretty sure.”
“I wasn’t even sure,” Cooper goes on, not meeting my gaze, “how much longer you and Lucy
would be sticking around, to tell you the truth.”
I straighten up, and wipe my suddenly moisture-slick palms on my jeans.
  
“Yeah,” I say. I’m having trouble meeting his gaze. So I keep mine on Garfield, instead.
“About that.”
Cooper straightens, too. “It’s just,” he says. I can’t tell where he’s looking, because I’m busy
looking at Garfield. But I have an idea he’s looking at me, and feel a corresponding rise in
temperature in my cheeks. “When I told you a few months ago that I didn’t want to be your
rebound guy—”
“We really,” I hurry to say—because I have a feeling I’m not going to like where this
conversation is headed—“don’t have to talk about this. In fact, I have an idea. Let’s just go to
bed. We’ve both had a really long, hard day. Let’s sleep on it. Let’s not say anything we
might regret.”
“I’m not going to regret saying this,” Cooper says.
I do tear my gaze from Garfield at that.
“You have a concussion,” I insist, checking his pupils for evenness. The EMT told me to do
that. They look even enough. But how can I be sure? “You don’t know what you’re saying.”
“Heather.” To my surprise, he seizes both my hands in his. His gaze, on mine, is steady. Both
his pupils look precisely even. “I don’t have a concussion. I know exactly what I’m saying.
Something I should have said a long time ago.”
Oh God. Seriously. Why me? Has my day not been bad enough? I mean, really. Someone
shot at me. A big orange cat named Garfield bit me. Why do I have to be rejected by the man
I love as well?
“Cooper,” I say. “Really. Can’t we just—”
“No,” Cooper says firmly. “I know I said I didn’t want to be your rebound guy. And when I
said it, I meant it. But I didn’t expect you to go out and find a rebound guy who was so—”
“Look,” I say, wincing. “I know. Okay? But—”
“—perfect,” Cooper concludes.
I blink up at him, thinking I’ve heard him wrong. “Wait. What?”
“I mean, I never expected him to ask you to move in with him,” Cooper bursts out. “Or that
you’d say yes!”
“I—I didn’t!” I cry.
Cooper’s grip on my hands becomes very tight all of a sudden.
“Wait. You didn’t?” His gaze on mine is intent. His pupils, I note, are still even in size.
“Then when you were talking to Tad tonight—”
  
My mouth has suddenly gone dry. Maybe, I’m starting to think, my day won’t end up being
that bad after all.
“I turned him down,” I tell him. I don’t bother explaining to him just what, precisely, Tad
asked me to do that I turned down. He doesn’t need to know that.
“What about your dad?” Cooper asks slowly. “The thing with Larry?”
“I turned that down, too,” I say. My heart has started doing something crazy inside my chest.
I’m not sure what. But I think it’s the cha-cha. “Cooper, I don’t want to move in with Tad—
he’s not perfect, by the way. Far from it. In fact…we broke up tonight. And I don’t want a
new recording career. I love my job. I love living here, with you. Everything since I moved in
here has been so great. I like things exactly the way they are. In fact, when I was getting shot
at earlier, and I thought I was going to die, I was thinking how much I don’t want anything to
change—”
