
By: Avi Offenbacher
The original series of Harry Potter is written by J.K. Rowling and all if not most of the characters, places, spells, creatures and ideas are hers. This is just an idea of a continuation from the end of the story.
executive head of the Improper use of Magic office, so when at the end of the lessons when Mr. Price also adds half an hour of learning magic, requested by all the children’s parents, which includes Hermione Weasley who is the head of Department of Magical Law Enforcement, the kids can use magic freely, with no worry of the trace. The trace tracks magic of underage wizards, under seventeen. Also Albus and James and their Weasley cousins had these classes, starting at age seven and until 11.  
   The five kids at age nine are learning grade five Math and grade six speech and writing, trying to finish ten years of learning like in the Muggle world before they go to Hogwarts. They do not have classes normally on Saturday or Sunday, but he will not be teaching them on Monday because of an important case he has to attend, so he decided they will make it u on the Saturday before it. 
   After the five hours of classes and everyone left, the Holyhead Harpies arrived at the Potter home. The seven players and Gwenog Jones, and they played a few mini games of Quidditch near the Potter’s home in a Muggle safe field and then confessed under Ginny’s pressure that they wanted Ginny to return to the team, but Ginny told them that only after all her kids are in school she’ll think of it. Afterwards, they taught young Lily how to play the game and even taught her cool tricks and control on her new broom her father got her that morning on her mom’s request. Towards nightfall they left, again trying to get Ginny to come back to the team, but Ginny stayed firmly to her answer and they left. 
 “Oh…The Potters can’t stand up for themselves? Oh right! Humans are superior to beasts!” Umbrage said.
Oh shut your noisy trap before I do it for you! Don’t pick on my cousins!” Domi screamed.
“Hey! Albus got a girlfriend, oh, and let us see you shut my mouth yourself, I’ll be delighted to watch.” Malfoy said and then a jet of light turned his fork that was in his hand into a mouse and he dropped it and screamed and he fell off his bench and fell on the hard stone floor.
“Now that is a beast, it is called a mouse, now I am not, I am human, and you should be lucky not finding you and your two friends as little ferrets stuck to the wall by what you guys said Lestrange.” A voice said and a big stag entered the room followed by a phoenix.
“What is that!?” A Slytherin third year, Destiny Bailey screeched. 
“An Animagus.” James said and the stag transformed into Harry Potter.
“What were you three saying?” He asked Lestrange, Umbrage and Malfoy. “I thought so, you weren’t, and I guess I heard someone else talking, well this is a school and it is full of students.” He said as he glared at the three and he left. James and Albus quickly finished eating and ran out the door and saw him in the distance going towards Hagrid’s hut. They ran to the hut and they saw their father speaking to Hagrid. 
“James and Albus, I know you guys are wondering, just please fetch Comi and I’ll explain everything or during and or after the lesson.” Harry said after he hugged his sons and they ran off towards the training grounds. They fetched Comi and came back to the hut to find the whole class there, the third year Gryffindors and Ravenclaws, all looking with awe at the creature and Hagrid was telling them not to fear and it will not hurt them. Next to Hagrid was a small fire with a pot over it holding four eggs.
“Hello students, my name is Rubeus Hagrid, I am going to be your Care for Magical Creatures professor, now before we begin, and Harry Potter is here to talk to you all about a special program this year.” Hagrid said as Harry walked out from under the trees of the forest. Then, Professor Longbottom came down to the class.
“Oh hello. Harry, the program is canceled, the decision was made to have it the next year, Arianna’s program will start, and Alastair said yours can start in two years time.” Neville said as he rushed towards Harry and whispered something in his ear.
“I see that the program I was about to tell you about was pushed off two years, so then, Hagrid, are you not about to teach these students about dragons? Well Albus, you should go to class, things are not going as expected.” Harry said and he, Albus and Neville left the area and walked back towards the castle. 
   Albus got to class and with a note from Neville on his lateness, and his father and Neville went to Professor Alastair. 
“So students.” Hagrid said, rubbing his hands together after Harry and Neville left. “Today we will learn about dragons, as a special opening treat, now of course this one, Comi is a very nice and tames dragon, but she is still a dragon so proceed with caution when I say so, but first, I will teach you about ‘em.”
“Is this the same dragon that escaped from the Triwizard Tournament twenty three years ago?” A Ravenclaw girl, Celestia Castle, the daughter of one of the school governors asked.
“Yes, but it was tamed, but I think she must still be a bit traumatized from it but she is safe, but as long as you do not do anything stupid like a kid I taught many years ago, when I taught on the first lesson about hippogriffs, you ‘ll with learn ‘bout them in a few weeks, so, I taught about them as a treat and I explained how to get near one and everything but a stupid Slytherin boy did not care, he walked right up to it and got a small cut in the arm and faked himself dying and the bird almost got executed if he was not saved when he was. So I resorted not to do things like that because they are more advanced and dangerous creatures than the ones I am supposed to, so I brought a dragon, they are harmless.” Hagrid said and everyone laughed. “So, who can give me a good description that fits all dragons?” He asked his class. “Yes, you, what is your name? You can answer.”
“My name is Jason Corwill; an exact definition of a dragon is a giant winged, flying fire breathing reptile, how many wizards they kill a year or how we look at them is not a definition.” A Ravenclaw kid who was standing behind everyone said, he was quite short for his age. 
“Perfect. Now, names, does anyone know dragon species? You can use your book, it is under dragon.” Hagrid said.
“Hungarian Horntails.” Another Ravenclaw, Mark Cattelwing said. “And Norwegian Ridgebacks and Chinese Firebolts.” 
“Swedish Short Snouts, Peruvian Vipertooths, Romanian Long-Horns and Ukrainian Ironbelly.” Celestia said.
“Great, does anyone know what type of dragon Com is and what type of dragon then we will be learnin’ ‘bout today?” Hagrid asked.
“Ooh! A Common Welsh Green.” Emmet said.
“Great, so, I see you guys know something ‘bout dragons, can anyone tell me of a hybrid species?” Hagrid asked.
“Catalonian Fireball, they come from a Chinese Fireball and Common Welsh Green.” A Gryffindor girl, Jane Johnson.
“Very good, so now I will teach you all about a specie and that is a Common Welsh. As you can see, its flames are like narrow jets.” He said as Comi shot two jets of fire in the air over the students’ heads. “Don’t worry, it won’t hit you, the fire disappears very quickly. Now, a Common Welsh Green’s eggs are earthy brown, speckled with green.” He said as he picked up the pot that was next to him by magic and showed the contents to the class and put it back down. “A dragon egg, different from a normal creature’s egg needs a lot more heat, for their mother’s body is very hot and she sometimes blows fire on ‘em. An egg hatches within four months and the babies cannot blow fire until six moths and cannot fly until about twelve. Dragons are fully grown after about two years.” Hagrid said and explained more things about dragons, Common Welsh Greens and Hungarian Horntails and gave homework of a picking three different species of dragons they did not learn about that day and writing a foot long essay on each one. The students even rode Comi during the lesson and pet her and held her eggs.
***
   Wednesday morning came and after the first lesson of Transfiguration, Gryffindor first years have D.A.D.A. with Professor Desdemon for two straight lessons with the first year Slytherins. The class filled in with students and everyone sat down in their places. There was no lit fire in the room because the sun was shining through the windows and there was enough light.
“Everyone sit down and put away their wands!” Desdemon’s voice filled the class room. “And shut up!” He said as he came in with his wand raised and one by one the windows shut and fires came to life around the classroom to give the place some light. “Everyone open up to page 29 and start reading about Boggarts and no talking or whispering in my class Potter!” Desdemon said and he left the classroom and returned two minutes later with a metal chest and put it down in the front of the classroom. The chest was moving, something was in it and it banged it around from the inside. After two more minutes Desdemon waved his wand and all the books closed. “I think I gave enough time to read the whole book, so you all should know what a Boggart is.” He said. “So, what is it?” He asked and six Slytherins and four Gryffindors raised their hands. “I see none raised their hands, oh well, Weasley! What is a Boggart?” He asked glaring at Domi.
“I…I don’t know sir.” She said after a few seconds.
“Five points from Gryffindor for not knowing and raising your hand!” He said even though she did not raise her hand to answer but to push her hair back from in front of her face. 
“But sir, I did not raise my hand!” She protested.
“Five more points from Gryffindor and detention tonight at six in my office.” Desdemon said.
“That is not fair, what did she do to deserve all this!? And at six starts dinner!” Albus said.
“Ten more points from Gryffindor Potter and you will be joining Ms. Weasley in detention tonight, at six O’clock.” Desdemon said and Albus was about to say something but Rose stopped him.
“So, what is a Boggart? Perkins?” Desdemon asked Samantha Perkins, a Slytherin.
“Um…a shape shifter I think.” The black haired girl answered.
“Correct five points for Slytherin. Now, does anyone know what it turns into? Arianna?” He asked his daughter.
“I am not exactly sure; I think the person’s favorite thing?” She answered.
“Nope, but for your effort, five points for Slytherin.” He said in a calm friendly voice and with an evil grin on his face. 
“They turn into your worst fears.” Malfoy said and Desdemon ignored the fact that he did not raise his hand and awarded Slytherin ten points, five for the answer and five more for saving Arianna by giving the correct answer to her question she was asked.
“It is a shape shifter; it will turn into what you most fear. Now it will take the exact form and almost all of its abilities. Of course there is a special spell to protect you from it, does anyone know it?”He asked and let a Slytherin boy, Darren Diplet.
“It is called Riddikulus.” He said.
“Great, perfect, five points for Slytherin and even another twenty points for Slytherin being on such a good answering track.” Desdemon said.
“I can’t take this! You are one nasty teacher! You are doing favoritism and hating other students at the same time! You cannot do this!” Rose screamed her face red.
“Well then Mr. Weasley, you will be coming to my office at six every night this and next week, including Friday and Saturday and Sunday, it will end next Saturday, and you lost Gryffindor 35 points, congratulations.” Desdemon said. 
“Sucker!” Malfoy said quietly but plainly everyone heard because it was so quite, and then Rose just took out her wand and she lost another fifteen points and Slytherin lost nothing.
“This is totally unfair.” Rose whispered to Lucy.
“I agree, why is he so mean?” Lucy told her.
“I think, if I am right, it is because my dad caught his wife doing something illegal and with aunt Hermione she was sent to Azkaban and she has been there for the past five or six years.” Albus said.
“Now, everyone line up in front of the chest.” Desdemon said as the tables and chairs went magically to the side. “Albus Potter you will be first.”
   Albus stood in front of the rattling chest, scared of what was in there. Desdemon opened the locks and the top burst open. Out came an exact duplicate of Professor Desdemon.
“That is your biggest fear!?” Desdemon screamed. “Twenty points off Gryffindor and you will be joining Rose this week in detention.” He said. “Now do the spell!”
“Riddikulus!” Albus screamed and the Desdemon duplicate dropped dead.
“Thirty more points off Gryffindor and you will join Rose in detention also next week! Next!” Desdemon screamed, outraged by what happened, red in the face and some Slytherins snickered. “Ten points off Gryffindor for snickering!” He screamed even if no Gryffindor snickered. “And for Slytherin being quite, the ten points Gryffindor lost you gain plus five.” Desdemon said, watching Rose and Domi’s faces drop, mouths open. “Next!”
   Malfoy wan next, his Boggart was a dead body of what appeared to be a girl with long golden hair, but none could see her face because right after she appeared Malfoy screamed “Riddikulus” so fast that none could see who it was, besides Malfoy who probably knew it would turn into her because he looked ready. The Boggart of a dead girl exploded followed by a loud pop and colorful confetti went everywhere.
“Ten points for Slytherin for a very good and fast spell, and Boggart.”  Desdemon said, glaring at Albus.
“Who was that?” Rose whispered to Albus. “Did you see?”
“Ten points off from Gryffindor for whispering in class!” Desdemon said, looking at Rose after Albus nodded his head no to Rose’s question.
   The rest of the double lessons went by and nothing special happened besides Gryffindor losing ten more points for Mike Evans was blamed for Malfoy’s whispering to Slytherin girl, Purity Kiara Leblanc, she is called by everyone Kiara or Pure-Kiara; she is the daughter of one of the school’s governors. Then when Nyoka whispered something to a different Slytherin girl, Vanessa Moloch, she told Desdemon he was bothering her and he got detention that night but Slytherin did not lost any points, for it was known that Nyoka was friends with Gryffindors.   
   At the end of the lesson, after Albus, Rose and Domi were out of the classroom they started complaining one to the other about Desdemon and so did all the Gryffindors. At lunch the three told all the Weasleys, James and Emmet what happened during the lesson and about detention and Victoire and Molly got really mad.
“You should tell a Professor Goldshawk or the headmaster! You know what!? I’ll even tell them.” Molly said, annoyed at Desdemon.
“He went too far, for none of us it got this bad.” James said as he made a fist.
“Don’t worry, we will survive, get off.” Rose said.
“No way sis. I’ll make sure that teacher gets it, for he really got serious issues.” Victoire said.
“Remember when you got many detentions because he was affected by your spell too much and he was crazy about you, for like two months.” Fred said.
“This is much worse, I did not miss dinner for two weeks, Gryffindor did not lose so many points and I hate him.” Victoire said.
“Okay, fine, I am going, see you in a bit.” Rose said. 
   Rose was walking down the hallway, towards the headmaster’s office when she met Desdemon right in front of the stone gargoyle.
“Where are you going Rose? Are you not hungry for lunch?” Desdemon asked, his eyes reduced to slits.
“Uh…No, I am not, I am heading for my common room.” Rose said, her stomach growled and she remembered that her dorm room was the other way.  
“Why are you lying Rose?” He asked.
“I…I am not!” She screamed, trying to alert the headmaster.
“I am a master at Legilimency and I can read your mind, no, you are not going to see the headmaster!” He said and she tried to scream for him or alert someone in the area but the corridors were empty, Desdemon took out his wand and screamed “Crucio!” And she started to scream from all the pain when suddenly Desdemon realized that Alastair was standing at the bottom of the spiral stairs, wand raised and a bright light knocked him out and Rose fainted.
***
“AHHHH!” Rose screamed, squirming in a bed in the hospital wing. She was getting back to herself, things still blurry to her; she thought Desdemon was attacking her. 
“Calm down Rosie, don’t worry, your safe my sweetheart.” Ron said, sitting on the side of her bed, he and Hermione were holding their daughter down. 
“It’s okay, you’re safe.” Hermione said as Rose stopped moving as she saw her parents.
“W…What happened? What happened to-” Rose asked worriedly but was cut off by her mom.
“Don’t worry. Desdemon was caught by the headmaster and is going to stop teaching here and is going to be sent to Azkaban. You are safe.” Hermione said as all her cousins piled around her.
“So, okay, are you sure? Positive? Fine, Goldshawk, could you take him to his office? Thanks.” Alastair said as he came into the hospital wing talking to someone Rose could not hear or see. “So, how do you feel Rose? Are you okay? Great. I saw everything, Desdemon’s office was cleared and checked, many bad and disturbing things were found there, giving him a longer stay in Azkaban, he also bore a death mark under his sleeve, but until now none ever saw, yes, he was and is a Death Eater. I now award Gryffindor 195 points, even if some points were taken off fairly, the whole thing was crooked, so I give back all the points he took and award extra points for courage to tell someone and the unfairness. Also Slytherin is going to pay, losing all its earned points in that lesson and even extra for they should have also lost points they did not lose. None is getting detention this night or week or next week or even ever because of him and he is not going to teach here anymore.” Alastair said, smiling at her.
“So who is going to teach instead of him if someone will?” Ron asked.
“We are not sure anyone is, but it could be your best friend and brother in-law Harry will.” Alastair said.
“But he is the head of the Auror office.” Hermione said, confused.
“I know, that is what I told him but he said that he can do both, but he said that he might not because his daughter, you know, leaving Lily at home to teach while his sons have cousins to be with not like Lily, or at least not as much, he said the Auror part is no problem, but he said I should still look, and preferably not a Slytherin or a dark mark barer.” Alastair said and they laughed.
“Professor, what did the demon do to me? What was that?” Rose asked; her voice was weak.
“Demon? Oh! Like Desdemon without ‘Des’, cute, and no, no need to call him professor. He did to you one of the unforgivable curses, the Cruciatus Curse, causes immense as you could have felt and realized. That is mainly why he went to Azkaban.” Alastair said. “Oh Victoire, was he just annoying to you or worse all these years?” He asked the Veela.
“Only really annoying and mean.” She answered.
“Okay, he is gone, you should all go to the Great Hall, because dinner is in ten minutes and I have a very important announcement for everyone to hear.” He said and he left the room.
“What, I fainted?” Rose asked as Molly asked Madam Pomfrey if rose could get up and go to dinner.
“Yes, for a very long time for getting hit by the curse, but okay.” Ron said as he kissed her on her forehead.
“We have to go, by sweetie.” Hermione said as the two got up and left.
“Yes, she can, but she should not be alone tonight.” Madam Pomfrey said and Rose got up and went with her cousins to the Great Hall for dinner. 
   The nine got to the hall and sat down all next to each other, Rose, Domi and Albus were between Fred and Victoire and were happy to be there than the crazy Desdemon’s office for detention, being starved till late hours.
   Mace, Scorpio, Brone and some other first year Slytherins could be seen sad and upset; especially Arianna for it was her father that was sent to jail. Nyoka came into the hall very happy, not like his fellow Slytherins. Albus spotted Malfoy looking towards the Gryffindor table for a second and when he spotted Domi a little smile came over his face, a nice happy smile. When Malfoy saw that Albus was watching he turned away. Then Albus turned towards Domi but she was facing the other way and then he gasped, Malfoy looked up and then quickly looked away. “It can’t be, Malfoy…What am I saying, it is a spell, but even his Boggart…and he was so happy that…No, it just cannot be right.” Albus thought to himself and shook his head and continued eating.
“Something wrong?” Fred asked. “What was that gasp?”
“Oh nothing, nothing…”Albus said, his voice trailed off while his mouth was full of roasted chicken. 
Chapter 3: Fight!
   After about ten minutes, after the room was almost totally full, Goldshawk took his teaspoon and tapped it against his glass a few times and it made a ring type of noise and Goldshawk tried to get everyone to quiet down.
“Please quiet down, the headmaster would like to say something, it is very important.” Goldshawk said and the room got less noisy.
   Alastair took a sip from his goblet of pumpkin juice, put it down in front of his plate and pushed his chair backwards and got up. He walked around the right side of the teachers’ table, his dark green robes billowing behind him. He walked up to his stand, the enchanted metal owl woke up, spread out his wings and Alastair leaned against the stand. 
“Good evening everyone, I hope you all had good days, good learning.” Alastair said as the hall became so quiet that only the scraping of forks and sounds of chewing could be heard besides the headmaster’s voice. “Just yesterday, Professor Ryu Desdemon left our school for the reasons that will not be discussed here. Now a new professor for Defense against the Dark Arts is needed, but that is not something you all have to worry about or should worry about. There will be organized Dueling Clubs, every kid has the right that only I can take away from him to join one. If the student does not want to he or she does not have to. Kids that misbehave or go too far with it and use it in the wrong ways, the teacher of that club can kick him or her out. The clubs will be able to add to a participants grade in one or all of the following lessons, it maters which type of lessons will be taught in the club, D.A.D.A., Herbology, Charms, Transfiguration, Care for Magical Creatures and Potions. The clubs can teach all or some of these lessons and it will be all practical, no class and textbooks and a-lot of practical and learning to defend oneself or to know how to survive in many different situations. This is for all years, one to seven and you can sign up with a, or right now the Defense against the Dark Arts teacher.” Alastair said. “And have a good rest of the day and year of course.” He said and he sat down in his seat followed by everyone continuing to eat and talk to one another.
***
   Harry opened the door to the dark room where his daughter was lying in bed. He walked over and sat down next to her, it was nine O’clock, and Harry came in to her room to put her to sleep.
“Well, goodnight my little lily pad.” Harry said and Lily giggled. “I have a question for you.”
“What?” Lily asked as Fawkes flew onto her bed and went under her blanket.
“What would you think of your father being a teacher in Hogwarts school of Witchcraft and Wizardry?” Harry asked her, playing with a strand of her long hair.
“It would be really cool!” Lily said enthusiastically.
“I know…goodnight.” He said and he gave her a kiss on her cheek and left the room and closed the door after Fawkes who flew out with him.
“Harry, honey, I don’t know if you can take both jobs at once, like also teaching and also being head of the Auror department at once.” Ginny said.
“I can, I will try.” He answered just as there were about twelve really loud bangs on the door and the two automatically drew their wands and crept towards the door. 
  There was another bang followed by Kingsley’s voice:”This is Kingsley Shacklebolt! I demand you open up the door! This is urgent!” He said and Harry opened the door for Kingsley and twelve Aurors.
“What are you doing here? What is so urgent? Harry asked worriedly.”
“Desdemon escaped, two dead Hogwarts students, a Hufflepuff and a Ravenclaw, and Domi reported to Alastair that she was attacked by a black hooded man to be saved by her cousins. The ministry is thinking of closing Hogwarts, two dead in one night is absurd.” Shacklebolt said very fast just as Harry grabbed onto Fawkes and walked out the door.
“Come, to Hogwarts, I must see this myself! Ginny, stay home, lock the door and make sure none comes in.” Harry said as he gave a kiss to his wife and left the house with the ministry people. “Shacklebolt, you cannot close Hogwarts.” He said as they walked down the street. 
“Technically Harry, I can.” Kingsley said with a bit of annoyance in his voice. 
“Come on, I’ll take over D.A.D.A. post, have Aurors around the school and more protection and awareness for students, like in my third year.” Harry said.
“He has a point.” One of the Auror said. “You should tell him how the devil got away.”
“Okay, first, the one we caught was not Desdemon; it was Maridok Fang, the Ex-Death Eater who eleven years ago set a whole Muggle village on Fiendfyre, killed three Muggle born wizard kids, two ministry workers and got away and none saw him since he almost murdered your sister in-law Fleur Weasley.” Kingsley said.
“So, what is the problem?” Harry asked.       
“Twelve years ago he was put under the Imperius Curse by Desdemon until now, and it was Desdemon who killed the six Muggles that worked in the Muggle Government, it was Desdemon who put the Cruciatus curse on James two years ago, all of this unseen, and yesterday it was Maridok that put the Cruciatus Curse on Rose in guise of Desdemon by the Polyjuice potion that just wore off. We got everything out of him by Veritaserum, Desdemon was so stupid to give him to us, he knows so much, and he is to receive twelve years in Azkaban for the three assaults on Muggles before he was cursed if not longer. He was not supposed to be caught, but he could not let rose tell Alastair and Maridok did not know why he took the potion besides that Desdemon needed to take care of something very important.” Kingsley said as they walked down into an empty field which was made invisible to Muggles and from there they were to take off soon on Thestrals towards Hogwarts.
“Kingsley, please, let me take the post, have the school guarded better and we will catch Desdemon, give me a chance?” Harry asked and Kingsley let followed by Harry disappearing via Fawkes and he reappeared in the Great Hall and found there Belinda, Alastair, Goldshawk and Longbottom.
“Okay, dead kids, where?” Harry asked the bewildered teachers. “I am the new D.A.D.A. teacher, Kingsley is on his way and I need all students in the Great Hall and the whole castle checked.” Harry said and without much thinking they did as he asked.
   Within an hour, Alastair, Belinda, Harry and Kingsley were in the headmaster’s office; all students were sleeping in the Great Hall with six Aurors watching over them, the whole school checked and a fourth year Gryffindor was found dead in the Astronomy Tower besides 

