Harry’s pocket. “And maybe he was not holding this wand, but Harry acquired Voldemort’s wand.” Ginny said, holding the yew wood wand with a phoenix feather from Fawkes and turning the white wand around in her hand.
“You know how many people that thing killed?” Bill asked.
“Too much, and that is one or more, hey I did not actually kill him, but my spell made his Avada Kadavra curse rebound onto him.” Harry said.
“’The Boy Who Killed Without using The Killing Curse’, another nice name.” Angelina said and everyone laughed. 
“Hey look!” Hermione said pointing to the town’s graveyard as the passed it. “That is where Nagini found us.” 
“And you followed her to a trap.” Ron added. 
“Hey! We did not know, you would not have thought it was a trap then if you were with us.” Hermione said. 
“Okay, okay, that is behind us.” Ginny said just before Fleur let out a sigh.
“Fleur, what happened?” Bill asked his wife.
“Oh nothing, I was just thinking about zee letter Victoire sent me, she sends me a letter every year the first night of what iz happening at school.” Fleur said and told everyone about what happened on the train and everyone gasped.
“Rotten little Malfoy, he didn’t learn I guess, Harry let him and his mum slip, only put his father in Azkaban to let him out nine years later and his son and step brother annoy our children, I’d stick his parents back in A-” Ron said but Hermione put her hand on his mouth.
“It is okay Ronald; they are fine, no need to put someone in jail because their grandchild has bad blood like them.” Hermione said. “Pure-blood, so pure, what is pure?” 
“Yeah, those Death Eaters got what they asked.” His Holiness said. “Takin’ my ear off was just not nice, ‘blood-traitor’, how by interacting with none magic humans, like what is the crime and what is the penalty, so now they got some Potter in their face to put it right.” George said and Harry smiled.
“Oh, was Fred or Roxanne with them?” Angelina asked.
“No, he was probably sleeping in the train, he was really tired from staying up all night last night deciding what Weasley products to pack, we only let him pack a certain amount, and Roxanne probably put her head down to, he kept her up very late.” George said.
“They probably were then in a different carriage, they were not with them at the meal either with them, they probably sat with their fourth year and second year friends.” Bill added. 
   They continued to walk in the night, it neared midnight and they started back to the Potter’s. The night air was a little cold; there were not many people out in the streets if any. Every so often they would see some Muggle or two walking in the road or in their house. Most houses were dark. At that same time, Harry imagined Albus snug in bed, sleeping, but he would bet money even that he was wide awake thanks to his brother. The sky was illuminate by many, many stars and the moon shone down upon them as they walked, Fleur’s hair dazzled in the light and every so often a Muggle who just by chance looked their way was transfixed on the Veela, stunned by her beauty, now none with her was, they were all used to it. 
   Suddenly there was red speck appeared in the sky, none realized. As the speck got bigger the group of six wizards got closer to the Potter residence and almost no Muggles could be seen. The speck followed them, turning into a red line with red wings as t got even closer to the ground. The moon became hidden by a few tall trees and the speck grew and grew until Bill looked up and cried red bird and everyone looked up. 
   The red bird flew downwards, at a very fast speed, then it slowed down about ten meters above the wand drawn wizards, it stopped and Ginny let out a surprising cry: “It’s a phoenix!” 
“No…it…its Fawkes!” Harry cried as the bird landed on his shoulder and let out a screech.
“This is very odd Harry, what do you think he wants? Usually phoenixes will depart from their master if he dies and becomes wild one more.” Hermione said.
“I don’t know, but I think the best person to ask would be Dumbledore.” Harry said.
“Harry, Dumbledore is dead.” Ron said.
“Picture.” Ginny said in an obvious sounding voice.
   The last few minutes of the walk, everyone was admiring the bird that did not change its position from Harry’s shoulder. They walked in and Harry went straight upstairs to his office, followed by Ron and Hermione. Ginny went to check on her daughter and Bill and Fleur said their good-byes and good-nights and Disapparited into the night.
    The trio entered the black tiled office and went right over to Dumbledore’s empty portrait and harry raped on it and called his name. Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore came into the picture, tired.
“Why did you wake me up Harry? This must be…Fawkes!?” Dumbledore said in a surprised but calm voice.
“Yes and my question is ‘how?’.” Harry said.
“I don’t know, but I can guess.” Dumbledore said wearily and let out a yawn. “Well maybe, Fawkes decided that you are to be his master, hey he even served you when I was alive, he brought you the hat and the diary, he blinded the basilisk and brought you guys out from the chamber, and let us not forget that he saved your life with his tears.” Dumbledore said.
“But it was because I was loyal and still am to you.” Harry said.
“Oh Harry, I always thought Fawkes was a little odd, or a better word would be different.” Albus said. “Well, goodnight, oh, Harry, also your wand is made with one of his feathers, but about that, ask Ollivander, he should know.” He said and he left the frame.  
   Harry made a small movement with his wand just as a mouse scurried across the room and it turned into a golden perch for Fawkes like the one that was in Dumbledore’s office. He put it on his desk and Fawkes hoped onto it, moved around a little and then followed the trio down stairs. Ron and Hermione said goodbye to Harry and then Ron picked up Hugo in his arms and Ginny walked with them until the gates and said her goodbye and the Weasleys Disapparited. When they got to their destination, Hugo woke up, threw up, and fell out of Ron’s hands onto the sidewalk before their house and was cushioned by the vomit. They quickly picked him up and ran into their house and it took about an hour until finally Hugo went to bed, but with a headache.
   Harry gave his daughter a goodnight’s kiss and Fawkes perched himself on the rounded top of the wooden chair she had in her room which was piled with books and clothes she had to put away.
***
   The feast ended with a delicious desert of puddings, cakes and other sweets and then the headmaster got up. 
“Welcome students to a brand new year at Hogwarts, I professor Augustus Alastair am your new headmaster of the school for witchcraft and Wizardry. I would just like to remind everyone, the Forbidden Forest is forbidden and off limits, it is very dangerous and unsafe. All Weasley products are banned, to see Filch’s full list of banned items please go to his office next door to the Great Hall. Oh, the Herbology teacher knows when a Weasley product is used to make him or her sick, so don’t use them then because he will have the right half to cure the ‘sicknesses’. Well, goodnight students and have a good year!” Professor Alastair said and all the students in the room filled out, following their Perfects to the dorms. The Perfects were calling the first years to follow them like usual, nothing special, and when they reached the portrait of the Fat Lady, the Perfect Manny Key said to the Fat Lady “Dungbombs.” And the portrait opened and everyone milled in, Lucy then went to continue pester Molly until she was chase upstairs by her older sister.
“What a password, ‘Dungbombs’, who made it up?” James said, sunk in one of the armchairs near the fire which his father always sat in. 
“So I’ll have to say ‘Dungbomb’ every time I want to enter my dorm?” Rose asked.
“Well, the common room, but yeah, that also means your door.” James said.
“Oh stop being difficult.” Victoire said. 
“Now I know why dad, Uncle Ron and Aunt Hermione liked these seats, they are so good and they are one seated, so I get both arms.” Albus said.
“Domi, don’t get so close to the fire, you’ll burn yourself!” Victoire said to her sister who was only inches from the flames.
“Fine, fine.” Domi said and moved backwards a foot.
“But why are you on the floor is a better question?” Rose asked.
“Okay.” Domi said and got up, brushed some dust off and sat down on the couch Rose was sitting on and put her head on Rose’s lap.
“All she needs is to sleep that girl. Tomorrow she should be as perky and alert as usual.” Victoire said.
“When I can do magic your future will be quite murky…” Domi said and they all laughed.        
“Well, if so, you’ll have to get a good night’s sleep Domi.” Victoire said and the two girls went up the stairs to the girl’s dorms, followed by Rose. 
    Then James and Albus played one game of Wizard Chess and the two of them went to their dorms up the boy’s staircase to go to sleep. In Albus’s dorm there were six boys including him, two were already asleep but two were awake near the small heater in the middle of the room.  
“Oh hello there, my name is Kevin Barns, what is your name?” The black haired taller kid said, greeting him.
“Oh, my name is Albus Potter.” Albus answered. “Or Al for short.”
“Wait!  Your father is Harry Potter!” The other kid, Arney Jones a plump blonde haired kid, a little shorter than Kevin asked, he was stronger than he looked as he almost crushed Albus’s hand.
“Yes, but why do you have to shake so hard?” Albus asked.
“Oh sorry, just my parents really admire your father, and my older sister Emma, she is a seventh year in Ravenclaw, just can’t get over how good your mom is as a Beater for the Holyhead Harpies, and also my grandma, Gwenog Jones thinks she is really good and that is something, so, I think it is really cool their son is in my dorm.” Jones said.
“Thank-you, I guess.” Albus said and Kevin let out a laugh. 
“Well now that you know who we are, I’ll introduce you to the two sleeping beauties, here.” Kevin said pointing to the bed closest to the door. “Is where we guessed you’d want to sleep, is here okay?” 
“Yeah sure.” Albus answered and sat down on it and his trunk was right next to his small table on the side of his bed.
“Here is where I am sleeping and next to me is where Arney is sleeping.” Kevin said, pointing to the fourth and third beds. “This is Robby, Robert Sheppard, my cousin.” He said pointing to the lump on the second bed. “And this is Gregory Creevey, son of Dennis Creevey who his older brother Colin always used to take pictures of your father EVERYWHERE in Colin’s first year.” Kevin said pointing to the lump on the last bed. “There is supposed to be one more kid, I did not see him, nor did the others, but his name is Mike Evans, Jones’s third cousin, no, he is not related to Lily Evans, your deceased grandmother.” Kevin said.
“Oh Albus!” Arney said enthusiastically. “There is a fifth year girl, named Molly Weasley, she is a Perfect, her sister, Lucy is so hot, and I mean li-” Arney was saying.
“Albus, what’s wrong?” Kevin asked, cutting Arney in the middle of his sentence.
“All the Weasleys in this school are my first cousins.” Albus said. After Arney heard that, he was a little embarrassed and backed away and got red in the face. 
“What do you mean by ‘all’ the Weasleys?” Kevin asked.
“I mean Dominique, Rose, Lucy, they are in our year, Molly, Fred and Roxanne, and James Potter is my brother.” Albus answered.
“That is a-lot of family in one house if not say year Potter.” A short blonde haired kid came in and shacked Albus’s hand and on Gregory’s shoulder was an old camera. “Nice to meet you Albus, I am Gregory Creevey, or for short Greg, My deceased uncle and I really admire your father.” Greg said and the other two chuckled. 
   After a few games of exploding snap, waking up the others, and other games everyone went to sleep. Everyone but Albus, he couldn’t. He could not get it why EVERYONE admires his parents so much? He walked quietly out of his dorm and walked downstairs to find James and his friend, red head Emmet Prince, hovering near the fire with a parchment in their hand. They did not hear Albus come down, so he then tiptoed over behind the two boys and looked over their shoulders at what appeared to be a map of Hogwarts with moving dots with names. 
   Suddenly the portrait opened and Emmet and James closed the map and turned around to find Albus behind them and Molly entered the common room and just took a quick glance and a hello to her cousins and then walked up the girl’s staircase.
   After Molly disappeared, James and Emmet grabbed frightened Albus and pushed him onto a chair. They were whispering amongst themselves of what to do with Albus while terrified Albus was sitting on the chair, waiting.
“Ok, what did you see Albus?” James asked.
“Uh…just a…” Albus said but his voice trailed off.
“Don’t lie and tell us the truth Al!” Emmet said.
“I saw a map of Hogwarts with moving dots with names next to them.” Albus said in a frightened small voice and then Emmet and James exchanged glances and broke out into a smile.
“Well if you know, I might as well join you into the secret, but you must not tell anyone! Not Rose, not Domi, not mother, not father, not Lily, not anyone!” James said as the two boys pulled over two chairs and sat down and Albus agreed not to tell what they were about to tell him. 
“This is the Marauder’s Map Albus.” Emmet started.
“I took it from dad’s office one time without his knowledge.” James added.
“It is a full map of Hogwarts, every room, every corridor, every little nook and cranny, secret passages, ways out, everything, but two rooms we will get to later.” Emmet said.
“Now about the dots, they are every single person in the school! Every person in the school had a dot with his or her name on it. Wherever the dots are is on the map every second is where the person is in real life if he or she is in the castle. We can see if they are walking, or not, but they are only dots and no other information but that or their name is given.” James said.
“This is still a-lot. We can go out after hours, do pranks, and even bring you to Hogsmeade if you want, all with help of Moony, Tongs, Padfoot and Wormtail.” Emmet said.
“Who?” Albus asked confused.
“The makers of the map.” James said as he showed him the cover of the map and it said: "Messrs. Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs
Purveyors of Aids to Magical Mischief-Makers
are proud to present
THE MARAUDER'S MAP"
“But all of them are dead.” An awfully familiar voice echoed around the walls and then Harry Potter climbed down the stairs of the boy’s dormitories.
“D-dad, what are doing here?” James asked trying to stuff the map under the chair.    
  “Accio Map!” Harry said and the map flew out from under the couch into Harry’s hands. “Mischief managed.” Harry said and then looked at the piece of parchment and asked his son what it is.
“Oh, it is nothing…” James said.
“Well, I came because I forgot something.” Harry said and took out a piece of parchment from his pocket and gave it to his son, then with his wand Harry wrote on it two things: “Open: I solemnly swear that I am up to no good.” And: “Close: Mischief managed.” And gave James his permission slip to go to Hogsmeade that he forgot to give him and dropped the map and jumped out the window, on the outside there was his Firebolt waiting for him but the jump scared his sons.
“What is this?” Emmet asked pointing to what Harry wrote.
“It…it is the code!” James said enthusiastically and read the first sentence in front of the blank map and the map appeared, he then read the second sentence and the parchment became blank.
“This is brilliant!” Emmet said.
“And my father just authorized our having it! Yes! But he can still be angry, but whatever.” James said.
   After a few minutes of studying the map, Albus went upstairs and fell asleep, forgot about his questions and was just filled with excitement for his first day of Hogwarts, but it would be a Saturday, followed by a Sunday, so it would be two days before his first learning day at Hogwarts.
***
   A stag walked quietly down the hallway on the second floor in the Potter’s home. The weird thing about the giant stag with his impressively big antlers was that he had a small reddish scar on his forehead, but it was hard to see because of his brown hair was covering it. The stag quietly walked into Lily’s room, it was 6:30 in the morning, she had a red bird sleeping on her pile of books and clothes on her chair that suddenly woke up, quietly, and perched himself on the back of the chair as the stag walked in. The stag quietly and gently got onto her bed and licked her cheek as if there was food on it.
“Oh stop it.” Lily said laughing, her hands pushing the stag away while laughing. The stag then transformed into her father, Harry Potter, and he put his hand by her face so she won’t see the red bird.
“Good morning Lily, how are you blossoming today?” Harry asked and Lily laughed.
“The Luna is shining brightly today because the sun is shining on her.” She answered.
“Perfect.” Her father answered.
“I am not a Perfect yet!”
“So funny, you must have got it from your mother’s side.” He whispered to her and she giggled. Then, a squawk of the red bird was heard and Lily got up and saw the phoenix spread out his wings and his feathers shined in sparkly gold and Lily was dazzled by the sight. 
“It is beautiful!” Lily said.
“It is Fawkes my phoenix.” Harry said as Fawkes flew over and landed in amazed Lily’s lap.
“He is so soft and warm. Hmmm…” Lily said. “Where is he from?” She asked as she petted the bird and it rubbed its neck against her face and she giggled some more.
“It was my old headmaster’s; I guess Fawkes wanted to be my familiar as though I am his continuation.” Harry explained.
“Daddy, what are the magical properties of a phoenix that make it so unique and special?” Lily inquired as she got under her blanket with the phoenix and snuggled with him, the phoenix’s body warmed her up so much it felt like she was in an oven, but a comfortable one.
“A very sophisticated girl you are.” Harry said smiling, as he patted her head. “They are immortal, that is one, when they get old then there comes a day called ‘burning day’ where it bursts into flames and after like a minute or so a little baby phoenix popes out of the ashes, the first time I was in my headmaster’s office I was alone with Fawkes and then it burst into flames and then the headmaster came down when it was on fire, and then I did not know about phoenixes and I was scared he would blame for killing his bird, but not only did he not, he wanted his bird to burst into flames.” Harry said and Lily giggled. “How much sugar did you have last night? Are you sick with the giggles of the giggler?” He asked and tickled her and she could not stop laughing, Fawkes evaded the scene through the window and came back through the master bedroom window and snuggled with sleeping Ginny.
“What else is special about a phoenix besides practical immortality?” Lily asked after she calmed down from all the laughing.
“Just like a house elf that has special magic that because of it he or she is capable of Disapparition, so is a phoenix, and like a house elf, they can even Apparate into Hogwarts and out.” Harry said. “And their tears have healing powers; they can even heal basilisk venom and heal someone who is on the brink of death, and can look into a basilisk’s eyes without being killed and even survive after receiving a full force killing curse.”Harry said. “And not to forget they can carry very heavy loads on their tails.” Harry said.
“Don’t they also have good voices?” Lily asked. “I read about a phoenix lament, they sound like they are so beautiful.”
“They are, I heard one after my headmaster died, and they do have very sweet voices, the phoenix song will increase the courage of the good and strike fear into the hearts of the evil as it says in the book ‘Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find them’.” Harry said. “It is a very interesting book to read, some facts are wrong and you’ll be learning it in school.” Harry said and then Lily got up while Harry woke Ginny up and the three went down to the kitchen for breakfast.
“Why did you get up so early?” Ginny asked wearily.
“Ministry business, Shacklebolt needs me in earlier than usual today.” Harry said. “Did I wake you up to early?” Harry asked with uneasiness in his voice.
“No, I meant to ask you to wake me up even earlier than this, but when I took the potion Draught of The Living dead to fall asleep quickly, I took too much and fell asleep before I can tell you, and this tiredness should go away in a few minutes, it is from the draught.” Ginny assured him.
“Why that, there are other better ways.” Harry said.
“First thing I saw.” Ginny said.
“Ay Ginny.” He said and he squeezed her hand.
“Dad, can I play with Fawkes outside before lessons?” Lily asked.
“Sure, that is a reason why I woke you up so early, so you can play before class.” Harry said. “Even with a Fanged Frisbee.”
“Really?” Lily asked in amazement.
“Sure, why not, hey, the pain is not nearly as dangerous or painful as a basilisk bite, and the tears make any sign, physical and mental go away.” Harry said.
“Oh, so just let her fly on a broom.” Ginny said sarcastically.
“Maybe the Harpies could teach her some tricks whilst they are her.” Harry said.
“Harpies as in THE Holyhead harpies!?” Lily asked.
“The whole team and Gwenog Jones.” Ginny said smiling.
“What for?” Lily asked.
“Ah you know, just for a visit. As if I don’t know that they want me back on their team as a Chaser or a Beater, I was.” Ginny said.
“And still are.” Harry added.
“Very good. The only time I would rejoin, in two years maybe, when all my kids are at Hogwarts. They all probably have Thunderbolts 6000s or Lightningstorm 300s, a Firebolt is almost puny to them.” Ginny finished.
“I have great idea Ginny! James wanted me to give him tips on Quidditch, he wants to tryout, if it is in his blood like me, like he already proved in flying classes, I’ll just give him a broom and tell him to do what feels right, not that you should not give him different ideas or plays a Beater can do. So how about I buy him the newest and best broom, like McGonagall and Sirius did for me, a Fireblast 300!” Harry said.
“Honey, I think you are thinking too big, it is very expensive, fast, light and maybe too much for him.” Ginny said.
“Why not try?” Harry asked. 
“So then when you go to Diagon Alley to buy them before the Holyhead Harpies come you are going to buy five.” Ginny said smiling.
“Okay, well look at the time, bye girls.” He said as he kissed his wife and daughter and left the house. The second he reached the sidewalk there was a loud crack and he was gone.
***                 
   Albus woke up the next morning before everyone in his dorm from his brother who came in and woke him up. As James, Albus, Fred and Emmet came down the stairs all dressed, the girls, Rose, Domi, Victoire, Molly, Lucy and Roxanne came down the stairs also dressed and ready, and the ten of them went down to the Great Hall just as breakfast started. They reached their seats and the food magically appeared and they started eating and quite quickly.
“What are you ten doing down here so early?” Said the low and cruel voice of Professor Ryu Desdemon, the other D.A.D.A. teacher as he came into the Great Hall with a three sisters, each from different years, 1st, 2nd and 3rd year Slytherin girls, who were his daughters. “Someone might think you are up to something.” He said, glaring at them. “Kieran Desdemona and Adriana, come, we will go somewhere else.” He told his daughters. “Thirty points from Gryffindor for bei-” He then said as he left but was cut off by Professor Goldshawk.
“I don’t think they deserve that and they will not lose points for being here at the beginning of breakfast, because that is absurd, and besides, if this is the beginning of breakfast, students are allowed to be here.” Goldshawk said but Desdemon and his daughters were already on the staircase down to the dungeons.
“So, really, why are you all down here so early?” Goldshawk asked as they all sat down at the Gryffindor table and started eating of the eggs and toast and bacon and other good foods that were served.
“Oh…fine, as it is a free day and there are three new Gryffindors, we, the older ones, decided to take them on a tour.” Victoire said.
“Well well, very nice, I know that even Molly could be mischievous so I had no idea why you were all down here, well, remember James, ‘I solemnly swear that I am up to no good.’ And, why is Emmet here?” Goldshawk asked as he watched everyone’s jaw drop about a mile. “Oh, yeah, Harry told me of James having the map, but don’t worry, none else knows, use it for the good.” He added and got up to leave.
“Oh professor!” Emmet said.
“Yeah?” Goldshawk said as he turned around.
“I am on my way to the Owlery to put an order in for Weasley products.” Emmet said as James elbowed him in the ribs.
“Good shopping!” Goldshawk said as he waved to them and walked out of the room.
   The ten finished eating and as they left the Great Hall, students were filing in, besides the fact there were some students who came around when they did, but most did come now or later. Emmet walked off to the Owlery and the others ran up to the seventh floor, passing by a group of Ravenclaws and just missing Malfoy, Lestrange and their friend that always tagged along with them, Brone Umbrage, who in fact not at all related to Dolores Umbridge who was the first and only High Inquisitor of Hogwarts.
   The seven Weasleys and the two Potters explored the castle that whole day and part of Sunday, finding the Room of Requirement, the Chamber of Secrets by coincidence, Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom and many other parts of the castle, they also ventured to the white tomb and to the Forbidden Forest, to be sent out by Hagrid, finding secrets passages and more, and with the help of the Marauder’s Map. For those two days and later, Albus wondered about a few things. How his father got into the dorms so quietly? Who were the Marauders? Why are they dead? How did dad know about James taking the map? And so many more questions, and he figured that he would have to wait until some holiday or something when he can ask his dad, for he could not ask in a letter by owl.
***
   Many Wizarding families, because of the lack of learning speech, writing and mathematics in Hogwarts, started have private teachers at home, Hugo, Louis, Lily, Frank Longbottom, Neville’s son and Jinx Clearwater, Penelope Clearwater’s niece who lives also in Godric’s hollow, all are taught together at the Potter’s house from Monday till Friday during the Hogwarts school year. They are taught by a Ministry Official who works at night, Mori Price, he is the executive head of the Improper use of Magic office, so when at the end of the lessons when Mr. Price also adds half an hour of learning magic, requested 
	
