Chapter 1: Home Sweet Home, Godric’s Hollow

   Harry, Ginny and Lily walked out of the train station with Ron, Hermione and Hugo after saying good bye to their children who finally boarded the train at platform 9¾ to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. They bade each other farewell and headed to their respective destinations.  
    Harry’s car sped into the driveway of a big house. With permission, Harry’s old house that his parents were killed in was fixed and became visible to muggles once more, also Ron and Hermione Weasley lived in that neighborhood, Godric’s Hollow,  named after one of the four founders of Hogwarts, Godric Gryffindor. Harry walked up the staircase to his office after bidding his wife and daughter farewell, Ginny told young Lily that after her brothers go to Hogwarts she will bring her to Grandma Molly for a visit because grandma told her that after her brothers leave she will tell her a little bit about Hogwarts, she is old enough and she does not need to wait, but Lily’s parents did not want to tell themselves for they might let something out they did not want her to hear.
“We will be back in an hour.” Ginny called from the fireplace before disappearing into the flames after calling ‘The Burrow’.
“Ok, have a good time you too.” Harry called back right before he closed his office door and Ginny and Lily vanished in the flames. 
   Harry entered a storage room, he went to the far corner and touched with his wand four of the sixteen rocks that were in a pile on the floor with his wand and a door appeared on the wall and he went inside. His home office was very alike to the headmaster’s office in Hogwarts, but the walls were aligned with black tiles like in the ministry where he works as the head of the Auror office. Instead of pictures of headmasters on the walls there were pictures of his family, the Weasleys including their spouses, Luna Scamander and her husband, Neville Longbottom and his wife, the Order of the Phoenix, The D.A. Members, a picture of Professor Albus Dumbledore and of Professor Severus Snape which are the only two pictures that can really talk and think and go between their pictures here and in Hogwarts, Remus Lupin and his wife Nymphadora, Mad-Eye Moody, Sirius Black, his (Harry’s) parents and his wife and children. He has shelves aligned against two walls full of different things, his and Dumbledore’s memory, a pensive, whatever is left of the locket, diadem and the cup of three of the four founders of Hogwarts, some of the Basilisk fangs of Salazar Slytherin’s Basilisk, the cloak of invisibility, one of the three Deathly Hallows, a container which contains the Marauder’s Map, and other books and Auror equipment.
   Nineteen years it has been since Voldemort was killed. Within which, all the Weasley children got married, Ron married Hermione, they were and still are Harry’s best friends that in school almost never left his side, and he married Ron’s sister, Ginny Weasley. Harry wanted to settle down in his old hometown from when he was a baby, and Ron and Hermione joined him and Ginny. 
   After he and Ginny settled down they had James, Albus and Lily, all two years apart. Ron and Hermione had two children, Rose and Hugo, two years apart, Rose is the same age as Albus. Over the years, not only Ginny but many ministry officials, friends and family pushed him to write an autobiography, for Hermione and Ginny knew that if it was done by someone like the reporter Rita Skeeter than it will be three quarter lies and one quarter truth if he would be lucky. The day before, Harry finished the autobiography and when he got to his desk he found three copies of it there, waiting for him. One he sent to Hogwarts for their library by their request and one he sent to his office in the ministry. The last copy he put downstairs in his library at home.   
   Harry sat down behind his desk and let out a sigh. He then picked up a note he got by owl this morning from Hogwarts but did not have time to read it until then. 
Dear Harry Potter,
 
I am most delighted that your children are attending Hogwarts, just like you, but my only concern is about James. He is much like you and your father, he and trouble are like brothers. Now he did not get into as much trouble as you did, for if not the noble reasons behind your actions, you would barely have reached the second or third year without being expelled. So please, I do not want another ‘Harry Potter’ in my school if you understand what I am trying to say, just make sure I do not have to be told every day that he set off a dungbomb in the third floor corridor or that he made a greenhouse cave in.
 Last year was my last year, I have resigned and I don’t think the new headmaster will understand why James gets into so much trouble as I do.
Thank you for your understanding,
Minerva McGonagall, 
Headmistress of Hogwarts School for Witchcraft and Wizardry

P.S. You cloak and your ‘normal piece of enchanted parchment’ helped you a-lot. 
   Harry looked over the letter and let out a small laugh. He looked through the glass doors of his cabinet and the Marauder’s map and the Invisibility Cloak and smiled. He had the best idea of a Christmas present.
 Besides that note there was another note, written on a piece of paper in small hand writing.
Dear dad,
I want to try out for Quidditch this year and I heard and saw that you and Grandpa James were both really good Seekers; could you give me some tips on winning or something?
James.
***
   The scarlet train zoomed past the houses and buildings and into a range of mountains and trees. James, Albus and Rose were all sitting in the same compartment. 
“So, James, what is Hogwarts like exactly?” Albus asked James after they all switched to their black robes.
“You asked me this about fifty times! Give me a break, will you?” James answered.
“Come one James, you are abusing ‘power’.” Teddy Lupin said standing in the door way. 
“Fine fine, it is a castle!” He said after teddy left.
“Great, I never knew that!” Rose said enthusiastically.
“Well…Some of the teachers are good.” James said. “Like the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Arianna Belinda. She once researched on the Dark Arts and knows so much about them. She is really nice and most lessons are or dueling, learning spells or learning about different magical creatures, how to defend yourself against them.”
“Did you also fall into her trap?” Teddy asked as he returned to the compartment.
“What trap!?” The three asked in confusion.
“She is a Veela, now she is a good teacher but most boys go all crazy on her.”
“Really?” Albus asked.
“Yes, she even taught my class last year how to defend oneself against a Veela’s spell and at the end she gave away the fact that she herself is a Veela. We all freaked out for a second there but yeah, she is a Veela, and that means that if she gets upset at you she can change into an angry and ugly Harpy that can shoot fire out of her hands.” Teddy said and the two boys were sitting with their mouth open, aghast. “Oh, there is also Horace Slughorn, no, Albus he is not a male Veela, Veelas can only be female, but he is the head of the Slytherin house and he will try to collect you like he collected your brother.”
“Yeah, he has this Slug-Club I am in, he keeps on asking about mum and dad all the time and he also has other kids in it which are or famous or they have famous relatives, no, he is not bad, all because he is in Slytherin means nothing, one of his favorite students was Grandma Lily, she was a Muggle-Born, and also Aunt Hermione who is also a Muggle-Born was in the Slug-Club, and so was dad who is a half-blood mum who is a pure-blood.” James said.
“Well if she is pure-blood well…that does not mean that-” Albus started.
“I know, but I am also telling you that you will probably also asked to be in the Slug-Club.” James said.
“What about my dad?” Rose asked.
“Eh…No, he was not, and neither was any other Weasley besides my mum, but it might be possible…Hey! You uncle is my father, and your mom is very high in the Ministry of Magic.”
“It’s okay; I am not so enthusiastic by Slytherin teachers, especially if dad will disinherit me if I have any connections to it.” Rose said and they all laughed as they looked back to only a few hours before when they were boarding the train and saying goodbye to their parents and younger siblings.
“So James, you caught me snogging with Victoire?” Teddy asked and then the three kids stopped laughing and looked up. “Don’t worry your thirteen for crying out loud and family, just don’t go out telling it to the world.” He said. “Do you see my hair turning red?” He asked and they snickered.  
“Wait! Why are you here, did you not finish your education?” Albus asked.
“Yup.” Teddy answered. “But I might be working at Hogwarts as a teacher, for a special course.”
“Really?” Albus asked.
“It is a secret what but I will give two hints to what it is about, it is only for third years and up, and it is because I aced the Care of Magical Creatures N.E.W.T. and I did really well on the Defense Against the Arts and Herbology N.E.W.T.S, well, see you all later.” He told them and left the compartment and went towards the Perfects’ compartment.
“Bye.” They called after him.   
***
   Harry came back downstairs after an hour and stretched. He was in a little bit of trouble, because Ginny asked him to start getting lunch ready before they return.
“Kreacher!” Harry called and there was a crack and an old aged House-Elf appeared, he had many folds of skin as well as white hairs in his ears, and wore a white robe and a white little wizard hat. He acquired these clothing not by his master but by Hermione Weasley so he was not freed but also does not want to be freed for his master treats him well and since Harry ran away to 12 Grimmauld Place and acted nicely to Kreacher, Kreacher acted  well back.
“Yes master Potter.” Kreacher asked in a bow with his bullfrog like voice. “Yes, lunch is being cooked, Mistress Ginny asked me to start preparing lunch at five to twelve for she thought you might forget and be to enveloped in your work.”
“Thank-you Kreacher that was exactly what I was going to ask.” Harry answered.
“It is my pleasure master, I live to serve.” He said and vanished with a snap of his fingers and a crack.
   Harry only turned towards the fire place when the fire turned green and his wife and daughter appeared from the fire.
“Daddy daddy! Grandma taught me how to knit today, it is a-lot of fun, so she told me to try to knit scarves for Albus and James and Rose before Christmas as practice and within a period of time!” Lily said enthusiastically as she jumped into her father’s open arms and he gave her a massive hug.
“With or without magic?” Harry asked.
“Oh no, only one scarf at least by Christmas, but Grandma thinks I might not make it by then.” Lily answered as Harry looked at Ginny and mouthed to her: “Your mom is very good and changing subjects.” And then he hugged her and gave her a kiss before telling her that lunch is being made, but Ginny was able to see through it and realized that it was Kreacher that remembered and not Harry.
***
“Cool!” Albus said as James told him about the Forbidden Forest.
“Dad told me that he went in there a few times without permission, breaking the rules, and he and Uncle Ron once got attacked by Acromantulas, giant spiders that can communicate with humans, the flew on Thestrals, the ‘bad omen’ creatures that can only be seen by one who saw death and they are the creatures that pull the ‘headless carriages’ to Hogwarts I told you about.” 
“Cool…but how did they see them?” Rose asked.
“I guess because dad saw his parents die, and then he probably helped Uncle Ron and also Aunt Hermione that was with them onto the beasts.” James explained.
“Well where did they fly?” Albus asked.
“Well…dad did not tell me, but dad, mum and Uncle Ron all played for the Gryffindor Quidditch team, dad was the youngest Seeker in the last century Uncle Ron told me and he was good, he was a first year, and then became Captain in his sixth.” James said.
“And mum used to play for the Holyhead Harpies for a few years, before you were born.” Albus added. 
 “Dad also went to the forest for detention once and also for some Care of Magical Creatures class where he rode a Hippogriff, half lion half eagle, Buckbeak, Hagrid still has him. There are also Centaurs in the forest that used to be really hostile to wizards but thanks to dad they are now very nice and Firenze, a Centaur, is one of the two Divination teachers. I suspect that they are connected with Teddy’s program.” James said.
“Hey Potter! Whacha doin’?” A long blonde haired girl asked as she came into the compartment, with her black robes gliding across the floor. It was Dominique Weasley, Victoire’s eleven year old sister, it is her first year. Domi looks just like her sister, long golden hair, bright blue eyes, but in a smaller version.
“Domi, what are you doing here?” James asked his cousin in a jokingly kind of way.    
“Well you are my cousins and my sister, Victoire gets on my nerves sometimes, she is so proud of being an eighth Veela that girl, so? I am also.” 
“Good point, so why are you hanging out with the potters and Weasleys?” A black haired Slytherin asked in a snide voice from the door of the carriage. It was Mace Lestrange, the son of Rabastan Lestrange. After the downfall of Voldemort he ran away and married and had two sons and a daughter, Mace being the youngest, but when Harry found of their whereabouts, Rabastan killed his two older children before killing his wife who tried to stop him from killing their youngest when the Aurors got there and stopped him, for he did not want his kids to fall into the Aurors hands and they sent him to Azkaban while they were about to put Mace in a orphanage when Cissy Malfoy said that she will adopt him and he became Draco’s younger brother to somehow revive the Lestrange name that was about to die or be forgotten, for her sister was a Lestrange. Mace came to Hogwarts a year after James and just like Malfoy hated and annoyed Harry, is like mace and James. “Who is that girl, your girl friend?” He asked looking at Domi. “She is my cousin y-” Albus said but James cut him off in the middle.
“Knock it off Lestrange, go away.” James said.
“Oh! Is that your brother?” Mace asked sarcastically. “
“Get away.” James said.
“Oh, okay. What will happen if I don’t? Will your dad come and put me in Azkaban?” Lestrange asked sarcastically. “Hey you/” He then said to Domi. “Wanna come sit with us and not with these losers?” And the two Slytherins that came with him snickered; they were Malfoy and another boy.
“Buzz of Slytherins.” Teddy said with a little bit of anger in his voice and his hair a little red. “If you mess with them you mess with me any you don’t want that.”
“Why? Who are you? An Auror?” Malfoy asked and the trio laughed.
“No, bu-” Ted asked but Victoire cut him off.
“I do not want slimy Slytherins annoying not my sister or cousins, no Teddy here is not a student, and he is a teacher.”
“Whatever.” The third boy said to Malfoy and Lestrange quietly and they walked away.
“I do not like that Lestrange boy.” Teddy told James, Albus, Rose and Domi. “After all, they pick on students and are mean, but it comes from at least two of his aunts and his dad, all Death Eaters, and his Aunt killed my mother, Nymphadora.” He said as the sky got darker and the sun fell behind the trees. “Well, I’ll be off; they expect me in the Perfects carriage in two minutes.” He said and he and Victoire left and walked in opposite directions, he went to the front, and she walked towards the back where her carriage is.
   The four cousins then talked about different things and played a few games of Exploding Snap and Wizard Chess as the sky got darker and darker and the train sped through the mountains and trees to the castle. At a certain point Domi stretched and then her head fell down on Albus’s knees.
“Do you mind if I use this as a pillow until we get their Al?” She asked in a dreamy kind of voice.
“Um…no, of course not.” He answered a little surprised as she did another yawn and Albus was able to feel a little bit of the Veela spell but did not fall for it, for it was not that strong and she is his cousin after all. 
“Her head hurts, that is why she is tired, it hurt for the past week but she said she’ll be okay, the hospital wing must have cured worse things.” Teddy said through the window as he passed by. “Oh, and by the way, we will be in Hogwarts in like ten minutes or so.”
“Domi’s trunk is not here.” James pointed out and then Rose volunteered to get it for her and left the carriage and went towards Victoire’s compartment. 
“James, for the return of a subject, why were mum and dad in the Slug-Club, were they famous?” Albus asked after a couple minutes into a game of Wizard Chess.
“Took you time to ask. Hey! Don’t’ get up, I know you want to hit me but then sleeping beauty will fall off.” James said and the three laughed.
“I heard that.” Domi said wearily and the others were quiet for a minute.
“So, mum told me that she got in for doing a really good bat-bogey hex on some kid named Zacharias Smith in her fifth year and Slughorn was really impressed, now dad, well I can show you all the trophies and awards! He was the youngest Seeker of the century; he won the Triwizard Tournament, but gave the money to Uncle George and his dead twin, Uncle Fred.”
“You don’t say dead twin James, you say deceased twin.” Rose corrected him as she returned to the carriage with Domi’s trunk and Domi let out a quiet thank you to her and went back to sleep. “Dead is just not a nice way to say he passed on.”
“Okay okay.” James said letting out a sigh.
***
   Ron, Hermione, Hugo, Ginny and Lily were all in the Dining Room, waiting for Harry to come down to start eating, for the Potters invited Ron, Hermione and their son over for dinner of the day that their kids boarded their train to school.
“James Sirius Potter…he took after his twin uncles.” Harry said as he came down the stairs.
“What happened dear?” Ginny asked.
“The Marauder’s Map is gone and the only people that could’ve taken it are my family members and I don’t think you would take it without telling me, Lily would not find a use for it really, Albus is too good to just steal the open map from my desk, so the only perpetrator left could be James, he probably stuck I n when I went to the bathroom, saw it open and working in the drawer of my desk and thought it would help him in school, well he is the only child of mine that took after his father and grandfather in getting into trouble, so I’ll go talk to him after he settles in.”
“Just send him a letter to return it.” Ron suggested.
“That won’t work, well don’t explode on him.” Ginny told her husband.  “Okay?” And he smiled.
“So, you guys were waiting for me to start eating?” Harry asked.
   Ron was about to answer when Kreacher came in holding two roasted baby turkeys, a big fruit salad and a jug of pumpkin juice. “You are just in time master Harry.” Kreacher said as he put the food on the table. 
   The train stopped, Albus woke Domi up in a start and looked around. “What did I miss?” She asked.
“Nothing, just we reached Hogwarts, or better yet Hogsmeade from which we go on carriages to Hogwarts, but first years go with Hagrid by boat.” James said as everyone got off the train. 
   As everyone went towards the carriages, the first years headed to the boats for Hagrid was calling out to them like always. “Firs’ years! Firs’ years come with me!” Rose, Albus and Domi got in the boat Hagrid was in and waited until the other first years were in boats and the boats magically glided across the crystal surface of the great lake, quietly and swiftly towards the giant castle.
“So you’re Hagrid?” Albus asked.
“Yup, nice to meet you to Albus.” Hagrid answered as he shook his hand.
“How are these boats guiding themselves…Oh, magic, of course.” Rose asked but remembered, she is a wizard, in the Wizarding world.
“Hagrid, can’t you walk through the lake?” Domi asked the half-giant.
“Oh no, not even sixteen foot giants can. The lake is very deep and not the safest place to just take a dive, there are places you can but there are many magical and dangerous creatures in here. No, no creature will attack you now, but yeah, there‘s the giant squid who is fun to feed, don’ ‘now people who haven’t. There are merpeople that are intelligent like Centaurs and grindylows, nasty little ‘critters, it is a half a mile in diameter the Black Lake, it’s huge, and the pluming network drains into it.” Hagrid explained.
   The boats reached the other side of the lake and the students got off, Hagrid then reminded Albus about tea that Friday at his hut, James will show him where it is, and then Albus joined his two cousins to the hallway that leads to the Great Hall, the waited a couple minutes and then the golden double doors opened and a long blonde haired teacher, with bright blue eyes and a small blonde mustache and a little long blonde beard appeared, he looked like he was somewhere in his sixties.
“Hello students. My name is Professor Angelo Goldshawk; I am the head of the Gryffindor house; in only a few minutes, you will enter the Great Hall, there will be four long tables with students sitting on their sides, one for each of the four houses. When called by name, each student will seat himself on the stool in front of the teacher’s table and put on the Sorting Hat which will decide which house you will be put in according to the student’s virtues and other values. After the hat says your house you will join the house’s table, understood?” The professor asked. “Good.” 
   He returned to the Great Hall to only bring them in two minutes later. There the first years saw an old brown hat on a small three legged stool sitting in front of a long table where it looked like the professor’s sat, across from the four house tables. The hat then moved and started to sing a song.
Oh you do may wonder, what am I for?
Well you can ponder, or wonder what good is my sorting is for. 
Or I can tell you, that I do sort them all.

Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, Slytherin and Gryffindor.
I do the best I can by the enchantment of my lord.
For only few years ago different were some from all,

For Gryffindor fought Slytherin and there was the snake’s downfall, 
But I’m not here to teach, for that I’m not for,
I am only to sort, every boy and girl to walk through that door.

So put me on and try me out, you have nothing to lose,
I can see your mind; no I am no ruse,
So now come around and I’ll sort you out,

For that’s how I came about,
Sort one day a year and the rest just hang about,
Listen in to conversations, or to think my song out,

For every single year, I want to change it around,
So old students don’t think I just fool around.
So stop the time wasting, for your hungry no doubt! 
   The hat stopped singing and there was a great applause from the crowd, and so after it died, Professor Goldshawk read of names of students in alphabetical order starting with a girl named Sophie Amsel, a very pretty girl, who was sorted into Ravenclaw, and a few more down there was a boy named Sean Binns, probably a great-great-great grandson of Professor Binns or something, he was sorted into Hufflepuff, and continued down the list and past Malfoy who was sorted into Slytherin, Then the sorting continued, Albus’s good friend that lives in Little Whinging, Edwin Nyoka, an African wizard family that moved to England one generation before, Edwin’s grandparents, was sorted into Slytherin. Then after a few more names, Professor Goldshawk called: “Albus Sirius Potter.”  Albus walked slowly to the stool, everyone watching him as he put the hat on, but he only put it on when it hollered: “Gryffindor!” And Albus got up and walked over to the Gryffindor table house in a cheer of applause and sat down next to James. Only a few names latter the two Weasley girls, including Lucy, Molly Weasley’s sister, Percy’s youngest daughter,  were called and all three were sorted into Gryffindor and came to sit between Albus and Victoire.
   The sorting was over and the headmaster, Professor Augustus Alastair got up and jut said bon appetite and the empty serving plates and jugs and bowls on the table filled with delicious food and everyone started eating.
“Hey Lucy, where were you on the train?” Albus asked.
“Oh, behind the Perfects’ compartment, annoying Molly, she is a Perfect.” Lucy said, pointing to her older sister who was talking to a boy her age at the front of the table. “Oh my, this is good food, you were not lying, James.” Albus said after he started eating.
“Oh you’re nice.” James said jokingly.
“Where does it come from?” Rose asked after slowing a mouthful of pumpkin pie.
“Oh, the kitchens, there are hundreds or at least a hundred house elves that work at Hogwarts, cleaning and cooking and all the house type work, but they usually clean at night or at times they will not be seen, for they are not supposed to be seen. I can show you the kitchens one day; it is near the Hufflepuff house. The elves are happy to give food to anyone who goes down there, and that is how I get food between meals.” James explained.
“Cool.” Albus said. “Did Kreacher once work here?” 
“Yup, he told me all of the different secrets the house elves know about Hogwarts on the train in my first year.” James said. “No, he did not tell you because you did not ask, but I might tell you.”
   After the six finished eating the delicious meal Ginny made it was well past eleven, Hugo was sleeping on a couch in the adjacent room, the living room, and Lily was sleeping in her father’s arms. Ginny looked at the time and then picked Lily up from her father’s arms after giving him a kiss on the forehead and took her to her bed upstairs. 
“Aren’t Bill and Fleur coming over about now?” Ron asked Harry. 
“Yes, and also George and Angelina, Percy and Audrey could not come, Ministry business.” Harry said.
“Ministry business? Come on, you’re the head of the Auror office.” Hermione said.
“Well you know, trying to make up for those years of being a prat.”
“Really? After nineteen years he is still trying to make it up?” Ron asked.
“Yes, Your mom invited them and Bill and Fleur and George and Angelina for dinner for Percy asked about your parents over at his but they said that they already invited Bill and Fleur so he should go over them, it was a lie, now it is only Molly, Arthur, Percy and Audrey, like every year because the other four are on their way here.”
“So what is Ministry business?” Ron asked.
“A bad lie.” Hermione answered as the doorbell rang and Kreacher opened the door for two of Ron’s brothers and their spouses.
    The eight went on a walk through the village and left the two kids be watched over by Kreacher, something Ron would not dream of twenty one years earlier but now even gave the idea.
“Kids grow up so fast.” Ginny said looking up at the stars. “It feels like this morning Voldemort’s body was lying dead and lifeless on the floor.” Ginny continued and she stuck her hand into 	


