Romans in France 
An ancient wreck tells the tale. 
Built for river commerce in the first century A.D., a 102-foot-long Roman barge was lifted in 2011 from the Rhône River in Arles, France. Virtually intact after two millennia in the mud, the boat went on display last fall in the local antiquities museum. A marble Neptune, also found in the river, watches over it.  
The Romans had a serious trash problem, though by our standards it was good-looking trash. Their problem was amphorae. They needed millions of the curvy clay jars to ship wine, olive oil, and fish sauce around the empire, and often they didn’t recycle their empties. Sometimes they didn’t even bother to pop the cork—it was quicker to saber the neck or the pointy base, drain the thing, then chuck it. In Rome there’s a five-acre, 160-foot-high hill, Monte Testaccio, that consists entirely of shattered amphorae, mostly 18-gallon olive oil jars from Spain. They were tossed out the back of warehouses along the Tiber River. Spanish archaeologists who’ve been digging into the dump believe its rise probably began in the first century A.D., as the empire itself was rising toward its greatest heights. 
Around that time in Arles, on the Rhône River in what is now southern France, the stevedores did things a bit differently: They threw their empties into the river. Arles in the first century was the thriving gateway to Roman Gaul. Freight from all over the Mediterranean was transferred there to riverboats, then hauled up the Rhône by teams of men to supply the northern reaches of the empire, including the legions manning the German frontier. “It was a city at the intersection of all roads, which received products from everywhere,” says David Djaoui, an archaeologist at the local antiquities museum. Julius Caesar himself had conferred Roman citizenship on the people of Arles as a reward for their military support. In the city center today, on the left bank of the Rhône, you can still see the amphitheater that seated 20,000 spectators for gladiator fights. But of the port that financed all this, and that stretched half a mile or more along the right bank, not much remains—only a shadow in the riverbed, in the form of a thick stripe of Roman trash. 
Trash to them, not to us. In the summer of 2004 a diver surveying the dump for archaeological riches noticed a mass of wood swelling from the mud at a depth of 13 feet. It turned out to be the aft port side of a 102-foot-long barge. The barge was almost intact; most of it was still buried under the layers of mud and amphorae that had sheltered it for nearly 2,000 years. It had held on to its last cargo and even to a few personal effects left behind by its crew. And through a further series of small miracles, including another intervention by Julius Caesar, it has emerged from the trash to resume its last voyage—safe this time in a brand-new wing of the Musée Départemental Arles Antique.Last June, as restoration experts were rushing to ready the barge for its public debut, I spent a week in Arles in a small stone house overlooking the Rhône. The summer season was not yet in full swing, and away from the tourist hot spots the narrow streets of the town were lonesome. The mistral blew relentlessly. At night I awoke to rattling shutters and the hollow grind of a plastic bottle rolling down the stone quay. 
From the roof terrace I could look across the river to the quay on the right bank, where on an earlier visit photographer Rémi Bénali and I had picked up two large, rusty, hand-forged nails—small spikes might be a better description. Then as now the quay was empty save for a large shipping container. But for seven months in 2011 that container had served as a hive for the divers and archaeologists who buzzed in and out of the river every day, vacuuming away the mud that covered the Roman barge, hand-sawing it into ten sections, and hoisting them one by one out of the water with a crane. The nails had fallen from one of the dripping timbers, which meant they were roughly contemporary with, and probably similar to, the ones that had attached Jesus to the Cross. 
Gazing down at the Rhône, which was gray and ill-looking and stirred by shifting, rushing eddies—it’s the most powerful river in France—I tried to imagine wanting to dive into it. I could not. Neither could Luc Long, at first. Long is the archaeologist whose team discovered the barge. He’s been diving in the Rhône for decades, but the first time still haunts him. 
Boyish at 61, with a Beatle-ish shock of brown hair, Long works for the DRASSM, a French government department tasked with protecting the nation’s underwater patrimony. Long had worked on wrecks all over the Mediterranean when, in 1986, his friend, diver and wreck hunter Albert Illouze, guilt-tripped him into diving in his home river. The Arlésiens turned away from the Rhône centuries ago, Long explained, even before roads and the railway diminished its commercial import. They came to fear it as a source of floods and disease—and he was raised in that tradition. “I had no desire to dive in the Rhône,” he said. 
Long and Illouze entered the river on a Saturday morning in November, just across from where the antiquities museum is today. The water was around 48 degrees Fahrenheit, foamy and odoriferous—there were sewage outfalls nearby. Long could see no more than three feet in front of him, which for the Rhône was a clear day. Its strong current buffeted and scared him. Gooey streams of algae licked his face. At a depth of around 20 feet, he found himself clinging to a hubcap. It was attached to a truck. Slowly, apprehensively, Long felt his way around to the driver’s side of the cabin. He found a Roman amphora in the driver’s seat. 
After that, he and Illouze swam over a vast field of amphorae. Long had never seen so many intact ones, and his future opened before him: He’s been mapping the Roman dump ever since. But the Rhône never became pleasant to work in. Long and his divers had to get used to the gloom, the pollutants, and the pathogens. There were rare but unsettling encounters, among the shopping carts and wrecked cars, with giant catfish. As long as eight feet, the beasts would loom from the murk and grab a diver’s swim fin. “When you find yourself being pulled by a flipper,” Long said, “it’s a moment of great solitude. It’s a few seconds that you don’t forget.” 
Roman Barge Artifacts 
Before excavating the barge, which they named Arles-Rhône 3, archaeologists had to dig through a Roman trash dump that was itself a trove. Clay jars called amphorae made up the bulk of nearly 1,200 cubic yards of deposits they removed, but there were many other relics of daily life in a Roman colony. Some had been thrown into the Rhône, like most of the amphorae, but others had probably fallen off a boat or been washed off the riverbank. 
For the first 20 years or so, no one paid much attention to what he was doing. In 2004, when his team discovered the barge he named Arles-Rhône 3—he had found evidence of two other boats previously—he had no notion of there ever being enough money available to raise it. He and a colleague sawed a section out of the exposed part, which the colleague analyzed down to matchsticks. In 2007 three younger archaeologists, Sabrina Marlier, David Djaoui, and Sandra Greck, took over the study of Arles-Rhône 3. 
As they began diving onto the wreck that year, just north of the highway bridge with its thundering current of long-haul trucks, Long proceeded with his survey of the rest of the dump, around 50 yards upstream. Opposite the center of Arles now, he started finding pieces of the town: monumental blocks of stone, including the capital of a Corinthian column, on which he could make out traces of weathering by the mistral. He also started finding statues—a Venus here, a captive Gaul there. Word began to leak out. The French customs police warned Long that antiquities thieves might be watching his operation. When his divers found a life-size statue of Neptune, god of the sea and sailors, they brought it up at night. 
Before that diving season was out, the same diver who had found Arles-Rhône 3,Pierre Giustiniani, discovered the statue that set the boat on its present course: a marble bust that looked like Julius Caesar. Portraits of Caesar are surprisingly rare. This one might be the only one extant that was sculpted while he was alive—perhaps right after he declared Arles a Roman colony, launching it into long centuries of prosperity. 
You have to understand, said Claude Sintes, the director of the antiquities museum: Arles is a small town, even a poor town. The locomotive workshop closed in 1984, the rice mill and the paper mill within the past decade. What’s left is mostly tourism. The tourists come in part for Van Gogh, who painted here for a time. But the town sits on minable deposits of the Roman past—you almost can’t sink a shovel into your garden without hitting a Roman stone or tile. The exhibition that Sintes built around the bust of Caesar, after news of it spread around the world, showed that some of that stuff was commercial grade. “The exhibition’s success was astonishing,” Sintes said. “When a modest town like ours got 400,000 visitors, the politicians understood that the economic return was strong.” 
By the fall of 2010, as the Caesar exhibition was nearing the end of its run, those officials were looking for more culture to invest in: The European Union had designated Marseille and the whole Provence region a 2013 European Capital of Culture. Arles wanted in on that promotional action. Suddenly nine million euros became available to build a new wing on Sintes’s museum and put a Roman barge into it. There was just one catch. The project would need to be completed by 2013. 
Boat Recovery 
 From the murky depths of the Rhône River, a Roman barge, called Arles-Rhône 3 by the archaeologists who discovered it, is resurrected.  
That sounds like enough time unless you know about ancient wood and about the Rhône. Mud had protected the wood of Arles-Rhône 3 from microbial decay, but water had dissolved the cellulose and filled the wood’s cells, leaving the whole boat soft and spongy. “The wood was held up only by water,” said Francis Bertrand, director of ARC-Nucléart, a restoration and conservation workshop in Grenoble. “If the water were to evaporate, the whole thing would collapse.” The solution was to bathe the wood for months in polyethylene glycol, then freeze-dry it—gradually infusing it with the polymer before removing the water. But the barge would have to be cut into sections small enough to fit into the freeze-dryers. And the process would take nearly two years. 
That left only one field season, 2011, to extract the boat from the Rhône. “The project was doomed to fail,” said Benoît Poinard, a professional diver and the site foreman. The gloomy premonition had come to him even before he got stuck briefly under the boat one day. Normally, Poinard explained, the Rhône is safe for diving only from late June to October; otherwise the current is too strong. Three or four months would not be enough to excavate Arles-Rhône 3. 
Then 2011 arrived. It hardly snowed in the Alps that winter; that spring it barely rained. The Rhône’s current was so gentle that Marlier’s team got in the water by early May. The visibility that month reached an almost unheard of five feet. Marlier, who managed her anxiety about diving in the Rhône by never straying from the barge, saw for the first time that she’d been working for four years right next to an abandoned car. Her team worked straight into November, losing only a single week to bad weather—and completed the job. “Two hours after we finished,” Poinard said, “the Rhône became undivable for the whole winter.” 
Late in the field season, as restorers from ARC-Nucléart were disassembling the bow of the boat on the quay, they found a silver denarius the size of a dime. The boat’s builder had sealed the coin between two planks; it was meant to bring good luck. And it did—2,000 years later. 
When Arles-Rhône 3 sank, it was carrying 33 tons of building stones. They were flat, irregular slabs of limestone, from three to six inches thick. They had come from a quarry at St. Gabriel, less than ten miles north of Arles, and were probably headed toward a construction site on the right bank or in the Camargue, the marshy farmland south of Arles. The boat was pointed upstream, though, rather than downstream, indicating it had been tied up at the quay when it sank. A flash flood had probably swamped it. 
As the flood subsided, the cloud of sediment it had kicked up settled out of the water again, draping the barge in a layer of fine clay no more than eight inches thick. In that clay, in contact with the boat, Marlier and her team found the crew’s personal effects. A sickle they’d used to chop fuel for their cooking fire, with a few wood splinters next to the blade. A dolium, or large clay jar, cut in half to serve as a hibachi, with charcoal in the bottom. A plate and a gray pitcher that belonged to the same man—both bore the initials AT. “That’s what’s exceptional about this boat,” said Marlier. “We’re missing the captain at the helm. But otherwise we have everything.” The mast, with its traces of wear from the towropes, is to her the most precious find. 
To that snapshot of the boat, the nearly 1,200 cubic yards of mud and Roman trash that eventually buried it add a kind of time-lapse image of the commerce that was Arles. In the museum’s dim basement, Djaoui and I walked down long aisles of amphorae, many with their necks sliced off. “All this will have to be studied,” he said, with a trace of ambivalence. The dump is almost too rich; the archaeologists had already placed 130 tons of ceramic sherds back in the riverbed, in the hole left by the boat. I asked Djaoui about the building stones that had started the whole story. They were too heavy for the restored boat, he said; replicas were being used. Djaoui took me out behind the museum. The stones were there, next to a large trash bin, awaiting their own return to the river. 
Damascus 
Will the Walls Fall? 
In the rectangular courtyard of the Umayyad Mosque, the heart of Old Damascus, women swathed in black sit and chat on the cream-colored stone floor, polished smooth by the comings and goings of generations. The sky overhead is an identical rectangle of blue. Children chase one another into shady corners, as pigeons swoop in and out, drawn, the women in black like to say, to the holiness of the place. 
Within the mosque’s sturdy Roman walls, this quintessentially Damascene mix of ancient grandeur, restfulness, and quotidian bustle continues undisturbed for now, despite the rumbles of shelling in the distance—dispatches from the civil war that is ravaging the city’s ramshackle outskirts. But step out through the mosque’s towering gate, and it becomes clear that the Old City of Damascus, though mostly undamaged physically, has changed. 
Beneath the remnants of a Roman colonnade, Mohammad Ali, 54, wielding a hefty Polaroid he has been carefully keeping going for a quarter century, shoots a photo of a grim-faced family taking a breather from war-torn Aleppo. His usual clients—tourists, foreign students, and well-dressed families out for a stroll—are long gone. Today many of the families browsing the bright blue Iranian pottery and bouquets of colorful shawls are Syrians forced from homes in outlying neighborhoods that have become battlefields. They live crammed into rented rooms, shop fronts, and offices in the capital’s shrinking zone of safety. In the city center, men with guns patrol the streets; they belong to the growing neighborhood militias that some residents trust and others fear. Bracing for the unknown, fearing the worst, sinking into economic hardship, the Old City hunkers behind ancient walls that are reclaiming, metaphorically for now, their original role as fortifications. Beyond the walls military checkpoints create another barrier, keeping rebels out of government-held central Damascus. 
Along French colonial boulevards, in busy vegetable markets, in largely empty nightclubs, there is a sense of waiting within a bubble of provisional safety. Mortar shells land with increasing regularity in downtown Damascus, attacks that the government blames on rebels. (Most of the shelling heard in the city is outgoing—the odd spectacle of the government wrecking the suburbs of its own capital, many of which have remained in rebel hands for more than a year.) Mount Qasiyun, the city’s twinkling nighttime backdrop, was a breezy aerie where couples went to feast on fruit platters at cafés overlooking Damascus. Now it is a citadel from which government troops fire barrages of shells. 
Much has already been lost. But the singular culture of Damascus, viewed for centuries in the Arab world as a beacon of refinement and civilization, offers one of the few hopes for saving Syria. Given the country’s arbitrary colonial borders and contentious modern history, Damascus, for many Syrians, comes as close as anything to embodying a shared national idea. For centuries Sunnis, Shiites, Christians, and Jews have traded, worked, and lived together here, not without conflict but with a common relish for city life and business. (Only a few Jews remain; most left after the founding of Israel, when the government began viewing them with suspicion.) Later, after 1970, waves of Alawis, a long-oppressed group from the coastal mountains, came to Damascus, drawn to new opportunities under the rule of President Bashar al Assad’s family, which hails from their sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam. 
Those who live in Damascus and love it best stand united in their desire to preserve it. Even as a once peaceful popular movement for political rights, dignity, and justice takes on an uglier sectarian tone—deepening fears of another Sarajevo, another Baghdad—people here say they cannot imagine attacking one another. Yet Damascenes are divided on who most threatens their world. Just beneath a carapace of fear—of the rebels, of the government, of foreign intervention, of general chaos—bubble political views so divergent that it can be hard to picture how the gap might be bridged. (Small wonder that few in the city are willing to have their full names printed.) 
“Every stone is a heritage—every sculpture, every roof, every fountain,” says Ghazi H., a secular Christian in his 30s who has spent much of his life in the Old City. His schoolmates of all religions used the Umayyad Mosque courtyard as a study hall. As a teenager, he explored a Muslim quarter newly opening to the outside world: Cafés proliferated, boys and girls walked together without incident—although older people looked askance at them. As an adult, he salved boredom by hunting for “hidden treasures”—a courtyard in a boarded-up mansion, a small carving on an old house. But how people define the Old City’s heritage depends on their political outlook, and it is darker and more complex than most acknowledge, Ghazi says.“Everyone uses history to make their own points.” 
The Old City’s twisting alleys, where houses lean into one another and vines dangle across narrow streets, developed that way in part so that neighboring but segregated ethnic enclaves could protect their territories. “It symbolizes how these divided groups can live together even though they don’t like each other,” says Ghazi. Passing through a Shiite quarter, he notices posters on the walls commemorating fallen fighters for Assad, and he knows that some passing Sunnis from a neighboring quarter may be quietly cheering the deaths. Yet the two groups still greet each other and visit each other’s shops. “That’s what the Old City symbolizes,” Ghazi says, sitting in the courtyard of his now deserted hotel. “And if you go back in history, it has always been symbolizing this same thing. It was Christian, and when the Muslims came, they converted many churches to mosques”—the Umayyad Mosque, where a church once stood, still houses a shrine to John the Baptist—“and life has continued.” 
In quieter times Assad embraced a version of the Damascene identity. He attended interfaith musical performances and took (disputed) credit for the refurbishing of the Old City, as entrepreneurs opened cafés and boutique hotels, like Ghazi’s, in traditional houses. This urban renaissance ushered in another phase of change: Large Muslim families cashed in on their increasingly valuable properties and built larger homes in suburbs now torn by war. Assad cultivated an image as an everyman by walking Old City streets en route to favorite nightspots like the Piano Bar. Supporters of the government here see him as the guardian of the city’s multiculturalism, fighting a foreign-inspired, extremist uprising bent on driving out minorities and imposing religious rule. Supporters of the rebels reject this as hateful nonsense, viewing the fighters—mostly poor Sunnis from the provinces—as ordinary Syrians who are themselves inextricably part of the cultural mosaic. Damascenes who oppose Assad say he has stoked sectarianism and, to stay in power, would be willing to lay waste to the city. 
That is what happened in the northern city of Aleppo after the summer of 2012, when rebels entered its Old City and the government did not hesitate to shell it. Aleppo’s Umayyad Mosque was heavily damaged, along with crusader castles, Roman ruins, mosques, and churches across the country. “If they try to enter, I will be the first person to confront them,” says a Damascus shopkeeper who opposes Assad, fearing the destruction of the graceful Qasr al Azm, an Ottoman palace; the domed Khan Asad Pasha, where merchants used to unload their caravans; the Chapel of Ananias, the reputed site of the baptism of the Apostle Paul. “There is no military objective here. Freedom is needed, but not in this way.” 
Yet even here violence has come to seem a necessary evil. In a shabby living room in a sagging house overlooking Street Called Straight—where the Bible says God sent Paul after striking him blind on the road to Damascus—Leena Siriani serves coffee in the brown-striped cups she has used since her marriage in 1975. She fled her home in the rebel-held city of Homs because of the fighting and shelling. Yet as she listens to the whistling of shells and the thud of their impact, she cheers them on. “May God give you power,” she says, as if to the soldiers firing them. “I hope they are hitting the terrorists and the saboteurs.” 
Down a nearby alley, where shoppers peer at gold bracelets, olive soap, and mounds of cumin, a wiry spiceseller in his mid-30s whispers a different story. He comes from one of those bombarded suburbs, and most of the people he knows there have taken up arms. “All day long you hear shells coming out from here and landing there,” he says with vehemence. “Then they tell you that the threat comes from there,” he says, pointing to the suburbs. “How? Should I be afraid of my own family?” He explains that he fled to protect his daughters, leaving behind a decent job selling cars. Now he earns just seven dollars a month. He feels guilty living behind government lines, he says, not like “a real man.” Casting his eyes furtively about, he mutters, “I will join the people there sooner or later.” 
Just off Straight Street, in his 400-year-old mansion encrusted with relief paintings of flowers and lined with photographs of his ancestors, Samir Naasan, 65, keeps a Kalashnikov that he vows to use if rebels come. He has taken down the crystal chandeliers, because of the explosions. He shuffles around in a Puma sweat suit and sneakers, a tuft of his hair jutting off at an angle. From an old leather trunk he pulls snapshots of heads of state, including a sitting President Richard Nixon, visiting his house. Digging deeper, he finds photos of the craft workshops that made his family rich a century ago, where Jews hammered brass, Christians tooled wood for mosaics, and Muslims wove brocade. 
To him, his family—which also owns the Piano Bar, President Assad’s hangout, across the street—embodies Damascene cosmopolitanism. That makes his prescription for the crisis all the more jarring. “If I were Bashar al Assad,” he says, “in 20 days I would finish it, even if I have to kill five million Syrians.” As for the Syrian masses, he adds, “better they should die than live poor.” 
Then he heads out for drinks and meze at Qasr al Kheir, a restaurant in a courtyard with patterned tiles, mosaics, and a stone fountain. Its name means “palace of goodness,” and over the speakers Edith Piaf is singing “La Vie en Rose.” The place is empty except for an engagement party. As the music shifts to thumping Arabic wedding tunes, Christian women in short skirts hold hands with Muslim women in head scarves and men twirling prayer beads, all dancing a traditional line dance, the dabke. The next song praises President Assad and the army. The dancers whoop and stomp. 
This is the bargain that Damascus and Syria made: live under an iron fist in exchange for a social safety net and a space for religious and cultural, if not political, pluralism. Then Syrians took peacefully to the streets in early 2011, claiming that a family mafia oppressed not only the Sunni majority but all citizens. The government responded with overwhelming force, and its opponents turned to arms. 
Now Assad’s long-standing claim—after me, Islamic extremists—has proved true in many parts of the country. How and why will be long debated. But as both sides grow exhausted, forced to face the real prospect of demolishing all they are fighting for, perhaps resolution lies somewhere in the Damascene model of coexistence. Or simply in shared love for the millennia-old city that no one wants to see die. 
For now, Damascus focuses on survival. Merchants, unable to flee because their cash is tied up in inventory, tenderly fold and unfold brocade shawls that were made in now destroyed suburban workshops. For Ghazi H., comfort is found in Abu George’s cubbyhole bar. Even when shelling prompts other places on Straight Street to close early, the bar glows like a fire on a cold night. The patrons, nowadays mostly neighborhood Christians, wax nostalgic for the Muslims from the suburbs who would drop in to drink out of sight of judging neighbors. They rarely come now—they would have to cross the front lines. 
For Ghazi, what is slipping away is the Old City’s special flavor. “This period, it made me lose the feeling for things,” he says. “Now I walk—I don’t look. It took the spirit from the Old City. You think, Which is more important, the people or the rocks? Losing someone close to you, or losing the minaret of the Umayyad Mosque? For sure, the people are more important.” 
Sometimes he wonders if people like him will be driven out, or he even catches himself thinking a decisive battle would be worth it if it ended this period of uncertainty. 
And if either of those things happens, will the ancient city of Damascus be destroyed forever? He says no. “It will change,” he says. “Like it has changed in the past.” 
Anne Barnard is the Beirut bureau chief for the New York Times. Photographer Andrea Bruce has worked extensively in the Middle East. 
 