Journey Without End 
The Struggles of Syria's Displaced 
By the end of 2013, Syria’s bloody and complex civil war had displaced some nine million men, women, and children (see map below). Although most of them have relocated to less troubled parts of the country, roughly one in four has fled altogether, desperate to escape the violence and chaos and the mounting shortages of food, medicine, and other necessities. This relentless exodus has created a humanitarian crisis for neighboring countries and is spilling into Europe and beyond. And as the conflict enters its third year, there is no sign of resolution in sight. Photographer Lynsey Addario has documented the struggles of the displaced in Syria as well as in the four nations that have seen the greatest influx. According to the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, 3,000 to 6,000 people leave Syria every day. But borders are tightening, and it is getting harder and harder to find a safe place to land. 
Displaced by War 
 Syrians are seeking safer ground within their country and outside its borders: Approximately 6.5 million residents are “internally displaced persons,” and over two million have become refugees. Some return home briefly to check on property or relatives. Others move back after finding life in a camp or host community more difficult than expected. None­theless, refugee numbers are soaring. 
JORDAN 
 Syrian men and boys queue up to collect their daily bread—four pitas a person—at the Zaatri refugee camp, which opened in July 2012. The UN World Food Programme hands out 25 tons of bread every morning in the span of two hours. The largest Syrian refugee camp in the Middle East, Zaatri is home to more than 100,000. The site has trailers, tents, schools, hospitals, and a maternity clinic as well as myriad businesses started by residents, selling everything from haircuts to coffee. Yet many refugees face sanitation and electricity issues and must deal with gangs and a thriving black market. 
TURKEY 
 After bombs from a government air strike rained down, families fled their town of Ras al Ayn, Syria, where the Free Syrian Army had been fighting these government forces as well as Syrian Kurds. The villagers crossed into Ceylanpınar, Turkey, many with nothing but the clothes on their backs. The country currently shelters more than half a million registered Syrian refugees; roughly a third live in 21 camps. Turkey says it has spent two billion dollars to assist Syrian refugees and estimates that more than 150,000 in the country haven’t been officially accounted for.  
TURKEY I LEBANON 
 LEFT: Workers load precious bags of flour provided by the Turkish Red Crescent onto a truck bound for Syria. There was an international outpouring of some $850 million in humanitarian aid for Syria last year and another $2 billion to assist refugees and host countries with emergency food, medicine, schooling, and more. Yet the relief effort is sorely underfunded. Aid officials worry that a lack of basic health, educational, psychological, and other services will have devastating implications for Syria as well as the larger Middle East. 
RIGHT: At age 15, Raeda lost sight in one eye after being hit by shrapnel during an explosion near her family’s home in Aleppo, Syria. Today she helps her parents by caring for her brother Khaled, in a tent they rent on farmland near Saadnayel, Lebanon; 11 relatives live in the improvised quarters. Aid workers worry about the “lost generation” of Syrian children who’ve been displaced or forced to flee the country. Many have witnessed or suffered unspeakable horrors, have limited or no access to education, and face such ordeals as child labor, early marriage, and sexual exploitation.  
IRAQ 
 LEFT: At daybreak a family of Syrian Kurds sleep in the open air to escape the stifling heat of tents at the Kawergosk camp outside Erbil, in northern Iraq. These refugees were part of a wave of 60,000 who arrived in August during a month-long opening of two crossings. Because of security concerns, the borders are now tightly regulated again. 
RIGHT: Thousands of Syrian Kurds stream through desert hills near the Sahela border point in Iraq’s Dahuk governorate in August 2013. Although life in Syria was once relatively safe for Kurds, they have increasingly been battling Arab jihadists and incidents of violence. Shortages of electricity, water, and food have also motivated them to leave. These refugees have been welcomed largely with open arms by fellow ethnic Kurds in northern Iraq—a sharp contrast to their reception in many other host countries.  
LEBANON 
 Refugee women in Saadnayel prepare a funeral meal in honor of their relative, a Free Syrian Army fighter killed in Aleppo, Syria. The number of refugees grew from 100,000 to 800,000 in this tiny country in a year’s time. The government has not set up formal camps. Refugees often mix with locals, staying in rented homes or with families. But a third live in garages, building shells, and other vulnerable accommodations. “There are thousands of examples of generosity shown by the Lebanese people to Syrian refugees of a kind I’ve never before witnessed,” says Ninette Kelley, a UN representative. “But as more refugees come in, tension has risen.”  
LEBANON 
 A week after fleeing the Damascus suburbs with her children, Dalal smokes in front of the family’s new home: an underground cave near Baalbek, the only shelter they could find. Luckily, it was somewhat protected from winter’s bitter cold. A year later Syrians who lived in these caves have moved to a tent camp. “These are middle-class people who had homes, who had professions in Syria,” observes photographer Lynsey Addario. “They would rather live with nothing than go back and face the violence.” Starting this past summer, Addario noticed a change in how refugees viewed their circumstances: “What was once thought to be temporary, people are starting to see as permanent.”  
Where Greenstone Grows 
It is jade country. It is home to four national parks, which contain the highest mountains, longest glaciers, and tallest forests in New Zealand. It is Te Wahipounamu—the place of greenstone. 
Jeff Mahuika bends down suddenly. Among the thousands of river pebbles at our feet, he has seen something my eyes have missed. His fingers grasp the edge of a stone and pry it gently from the gravel that all but hides it from view. It is a finger-long sliver of pounamu—greenstone, or jade—and as he holds it to the light, it gleams a cool gray green. 
He passes it to me, and I stroke its river-smoothed skin. “Our people have a tradition that you don’t keep the first piece you find,” he says. “So I’m giving it to you.” A thought comes to me. Mahuika is a master carver of greenstone. I hand the stone back to him and say, “If you drill a hole in it, I will wear this pounamu around my neck, to bind me to this place.” 
Te Wahipounamu, the place of jade. Since 1990 this southwestern edge of New Zealand has enjoyed World Heritage recognition for its four national parks and interconnecting tracts of conservation land. Of all the wilderness areas in my country, this is the one I return to most often, to breathe its mountain air, wade its rivers, hike its forests, and absorb its presence. 
The carver and I are walking in the Cascade Valley, an hour beyond the end of the coast road, where it terminates south of Haast. Over our shoulders the Red Hills Range glows dark crimson in the afternoon sun. The pounamu in the rivers comes from those hills. The same tectonic forces that built the mountains made the stone. 
We pace the riverbanks, heads down like wading birds, looking but not looking, because Maori believe pounamu is not found, it reveals itself. Revelation, however, is complicated by the fact that there are many green stones that are not greenstone, or nephrite, as geologists call it. I discover I am an expert in locating these look-alikes—the fool’s gold of the jade enterprise. 
Time and again I stoop to pick up a pretty sage green pebble. 
“How about this one, Jeff? Nephrite?” 
“Nope, leaverite,” he says, as in, “Leave ’er right there.” 
When Maori were lords of this land, no resource was held in higher esteem than pounamu. In part the stone’s stature arose from the uncountable hours needed to shape it into tools or ornaments, for pounamu is harder than steel. Working the stone over weeks or months imbued it with the life of its owner. In one tradition, when Maori died, their prized pieces of pounamu were buried with them, to be dug up later and passed on to a descendant. In this way pounamu transcended time, binding generations in a sacred embrace. 
To handle such treasures today—in the form of chisels, ear pendants, fighting clubs—is to sense a link not just with the maker and owner but also with the physical ancestry of the stone. In the Maori world, objects speak to their origins: whalebone to the whale, wood to the tree, pounamu to its source river and mountain. 
Water and ice scour the stone from its host rock; rivers carry it down to the sea. “The stone is always moving,” says Mahuika. “In our stories we call it a fish. It’s on a journey, just like we are.” 
We cross the Cascade River waist-deep, holding our arms out like wings, balancing against the current’s muscular pull. It is spring, when the fry of native fish surge into Te Wahipounamu’s rivers from the sea, heading upstream to grow to maturity in cool forest reaches. Catching these whitebait is a west coast religion. From dawn till dusk, coasters wade the river mouths with long scoop nets, sieving for ’bait. Later, in a tiny riverbank hut, or over a driftwood fire, butter will be melted in a frying pan and a mixture of egg and whitebait tipped in. Whitebait patties, food of the gods. 
Maori call the commonest type of whitebait inanga, and they use the same word for pounamu of a matching pearly gray, sometimes flecked with eyes, as if whitebait swam within the stone. In a world defined by mutual relationships, the Maori name for one thing often recalls another. Their name for the Southern Alps—the tumult of peaks that runs like a jagged spine through Te Wahipounamu—is also used for the wave-swept ocean. 
The alps make this place what it is. Standing athwart the westerly gales of the latitude known as the roaring forties, they force moisture out of the clouds and drench the coast with rainfall. It is so wet here that in the less traveled south, moss grows on the asphalt of the roads. 
South West New Zealand 
During the last ice age alpine glaciers tattooed this region with lakes and chasms, and chiseled the fiords that give the southern swath of Te Wahipounamu its name, Fiordland. More than 3,000 glaciers remain in the World Heritage area. Two of the most famous—Fox and Franz Josef—plunge almost to sea level, where their snouts nuzzle the coastal rain forest. 
These forests are a time capsule of Gondwana, the supercontinent that fragmented into the landmasses of today’s Southern Hemisphere. When New Zealand split off from what is now Australia to begin its own journey into the Pacific, it created an ecological separation that endured 80 million years. That long solitude has made New Zealand a showcase of Gondwanan flora and fauna. South West New Zealand is its best window on that ancient world. 
Maori maintain a presence here, though their numbers are thin. A symbolic moment came in 2005, when Mahuika’s people opened a carved meetinghouse, their first ceremonial house in 140 years. It was a statement of survival and of hope but also an acknowledgment of human impermanence, a truth expressed in a Maori proverb: People come and go, but the land endures. 
Call of the Bloom 
Some tropical flowers reflect sound so nectar-seeking bats can find them more easily. 
Nature’s inventiveness knows no bounds. Consider the case of the nectar-drinking bat and the night-flowering vine whose lives intertwine in the lowland tropical forests of Central America. 
Glossophaga commissarisi, a tiny, winged mammal with a body no bigger than your thumb, flits among the flowers of Mucuna holtonii, lapping nectar, much as hummingbirds and bumblebees do. In exchange it pollinates the plant. In daylight flowers can flaunt their wares with bright colors such as scarlet and fuchsia, but at night, when even the brightest hues pale to a moonlit silver, Mucuna flowers resort to sound to catch the ear of nectar bats. 
At La Selva Biological Station in northern Costa Rica a vigorous old Mucuna has woven a leafy ceiling above a forest clearing and lowered dozens of flowers into the opening on long, green stalks. The flowers dangle at staggered heights in the vaulted clearing like chandeliers in a shadowy ballroom, each palm-size inflorescence a whorl of pale yellow, pea-pod-shaped buds on arched stems. 
At dusk the vine’s buds ready themselves for bats. First the topmost, greenish petal that caps a bud slowly opens vertically, to stand atop the blossom as a glossy beacon. Below the beacon petal, two tiny side petals wing apart, revealing a crack at the top of the pea pod. From this slit wafts a faint, come-hither scent of garlic, a long-distance signal that draws the Mucuna’s winged servants into earshot. 
Bats use high-frequency sound as a tool. With their vocal cords, they bang out short, swift bursts through their nostrils or mouths, molding airwaves and interpreting the pattern changes that ricochet back to their sensitive ears. The incoming information is processed fast and continually, allowing bats to adjust their course in mid-flight as they streak through the air after a mosquito or race among flowering trees. 
Most bats feed on insects, and they often use powerful, long-range calls, pumped out with every upstroke of their wings. Nectar bats send gentle but very sophisticated calls, which scientists refer to as frequency modulated. These calls trade distance for detail. Most effective within 12 feet, they reflect back pictures that convey precise information about a target’s size, shape, position, texture, angle, depth, and other qualities only a nectar bat can interpret. 
In the darkened Mucuna ballroom at La Selva a beacon petal’s cupped shape acts as a mirror, fielding bat calls and bouncing information back hard and clear. With eyes and ears and nose leaf trained straight on the beacon, a bat snaps onto the blossom in a high-speed embrace. 
The fit is exact. The bat crams its head into the cupped opening, hooks thumbs onto the beacon’s base, tucks its tail, whips its hind feet up. Braced high on the pea pod, it thrusts its snout into the garlicky opening. The bat’s long tongue springs a hidden switch, exploding the pea-pod keel. As it laps deep in the flower’s nectary, spring-loaded anthers burst from the keel and gild the bat’s tiny rump with a spray of golden pollen. 
Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Ten blossoms detonated and licked dry, and the bats are gone. Their high-octane metabolism and meager sugar-water diet don’t allow for lingering. Each bat makes several hundred flower visits every night. Mucuna holtonii, with their exploding mechanism and generous snort of nectar, are among the rare flowers that warrant actual landings. (Nectar bats can empty the flowers of less lavish species in a hover lasting a mere fifth of a second.) 
The 40 or so species of the subfamily Glossophaginae are the aerial elite of nectar-drinking bats. They belong to the family of New World leaf-nosed bats, native to the tropics and subtropics of the Western Hemisphere. Their fleshy nose embellishments—the eponymous nose leaves—fine-tune the bats’ virtuoso echolocation calls. 
Nectar bats evolved in fruitful partnership with specific families of flowering plants, a relationship biologists call chiropterophily—from Chiroptera, the mammalian order of bats, and phily, from philia, Greek for “love.” But this is no love story. The driving force behind the bat-flower partnership is not romance but the primary business of life: survival and reproduction. 
Trading nectar for pollination is a delicate transaction, one that presents plants with a quandary. It behooves night-flowering plants to be thrifty with their nectar, because well-fed bats will visit fewer flowers. But if a plant is too stingy, a bat will take its services elsewhere. Over millennia, bat-pollinated plants have evolved a neat solution: They sidestep the problem of nectar quantity (as well as quality) by investing instead in maximizing the bats’ foraging efficiency. 
So plants that flower at night proffer their wares in exposed, fly-through positions—easy for bats to find and drink from and removed from cover for arboreal predators such as tree snakes and opossums. They spike their flowers’ scent with sulfur compounds—long-distance signals irresistible to nectar bats. (But not to humans: Bat-flower perfume has been variously described as nasty; somewhat reminiscent of cabbage, kohlrabi, and garlic; and like damp, decaying leaves, sour milk, rotten urine, opossum, skunk, carcass, and corpse.) The Mucuna vine and certain other plants go one step further. They shape their flowers to catch a bat’s ear. 
Until 1999 no one had any inkling that plants use shapes that reflect sound to streamline bat foraging. That year biologists Dagmar and Otto von Helversen, of the University of Erlangen in Germany, were studying acoustics in bats at La Selva. It occurred to Dagmar that Mucuna’s beacon petal bore a striking resemblance to a sound beacon—a conspicuous acoustic signal, the aural equivalent of a lighthouse’s beam. Field tests with modified Mucuna beacons clinched the theory. 
The von Helversens followed their observation with a broader investigation into flower echoes, using a colony of captive bats at their lab in Erlangen. Under their supervision, Ralph Simon, an undergraduate research assistant, trained bats to drink from randomly placed nectar feeders flagged with various shapes. Rounded hollow forms proved easiest for bats to find. 
Simon subsequently found such forms on flowers in nature, including one with a dish-shaped beacon he first spotted in a photo in a nature magazine. (The plump, red, nectar-containing structures on the flower had caused the editors to misidentify it as a fruit.) Intrigued, he traveled to Cuba, where the flower had been photographed. Crouched in a forest alone at night, the elated scientist watched bats drink nectar as the flower dusted them with its golden pollen, confirming his supposition. 
Does a dish-shaped leaf really help bats locate a flower more easily? Back in the lab, Simon found that a replica of a dish-shaped leaf atop the feeder halved the bats’ search time; a flat, unmodified leaf replica barely improved search time over an unmarked feeder. 
“A normal, flat leaf just twinkles once as a pulse bounces off it,” Simon explains, “but the dish-shaped leaf sends echoes back strongly, multiple times, from a pretty wide angle as the bat approaches. It’s like a real beacon, because it has an echo with a unique timbre, which stands out like a colored flower in green vegetation.” 
By now a graduate student, Simon next built a mobile robotic bat head. He mounted a small ultrasonic speaker and two receivers in the triangle formed by a bat’s nose and ears. He fired complex, frequency-modulated sounds—like those of a nectar bat—through the robotic nose at flowers attached to a rotating stand and recorded their echoes in the electronic bat ears. He thus collected the echo-acoustic “signatures” of flowers from 65 species of bat-pollinated flowering plants. Every flower Simon tested had a unique and conspicuous acoustic fingerprint. 
Overall, Simon found that bat flowers share several general sound adaptations. They all have waxy surfaces that are highly sound reflective, and their sizes and shapes are remarkably consistent from specimen to specimen. Using echo fingerprints of 36 bat flowers from 12 species as a basis for comparison, Simon (Dr. Simon, by this time) wrote a program that classified 130 new flowers to species level based on sound alone. The program confirmed what the bats have long known: Some flowers speak their language. 
Why do plants invest so much in attracting and rewarding bats? “It’s because bats are most effective pollinators,” Simon says. “They’re worth it.” 
A 2010 study by evolutionary ecologist Nathan Muchhala, of the University of Missouri–St. Louis, comparing hummingbirds and nectar bats in Ecuador found that on average bats deliver ten times the number of pollen grains their avian counterparts do. And bats carry pollen long distances too. Hummingbirds are thought to deliver pollen within a radius of about 700 feet. The longest-haul trucker among nectar bats, Leptonycteris curasoae, forages as far as 30 miles from its roost. For tropical forest plants, which are often widely dispersed at low densities, the bats’ range confers a big advantage. This long-range pollinating is ever more important as forests become increasingly fragmented through deforestation. 
It was in the 1790s that the Italian biologist Lazzaro Spallanzani was ridiculed for suggesting that bats use their ears to see in the dark. A century and a half later, in the late 1930s, scientists discovered how bats do it. Now, 75 years along, we know that in step with bats’ ability to “see” with sound, plants themselves have shaped their flowers to be heard, becoming as brilliant to the bat’s ear as their brightly colored daytime counterparts are to the eyes of their pollinators. In such intricate interactions, nature reveals its most profound magic. 
Quicksilver 
Prized for sushi, the fast and powerful Atlantic bluefin tuna is being relentlessly overfished. 
One moment the undersea is featureless blue, an empty cathedral, the sun an undulating hot spot in the vault of waves overhead, its beams radiating down as if from stained glass. The next moment the ocean is full of giant, bomb-shaped bluefin tuna, the largest measuring 14 feet long and weighing three-quarters of a ton. In the sea’s refracted sunlight, their pale flanks flare and scintillate like polished shields. Their fixed fins—the long, curved anal fin and the second dorsal—flash like sabers. Their quick-sculling tail fins drive the formation forward at ten knots, with sprints to 25, a ceaseless, staccato beat. And just as suddenly they are gone. The ocean is empty again. Here and there a small galaxy of scales marks where a bluefin swallowed a herring. The victim’s scales swirl in the turbulence of the departed tuna, now bearing off at high speed. Then each vortex slows and stops. The sinking scales gleam like diamonds from a spilled necklace. Then they dim. Finally they wink out with depth. 
The true tunas, genus Thunnus, are supercharged fish, streamlined to perfection and jammed with state-of-the-art biological gear. The characteristics that distinguish the true tunas include great size, great range, efficient swimming stroke, warm bodies, large gills, finesse at thermoregulation, rapid oxygen uptake, high hemoglobin concentration, and clever physiology of the heart. All of these reach their apogee in the bluefin. 
The three species of bluefin—the Atlantic, Pacific, and southern—have divided the world’s oceans among themselves, and they roam all planetary seas except the polar. The bluefin is a modern fish, yet its relationship with humanity is ancient. Japanese fishermen have caught Pacific bluefin for more than 5,000 years. The Haida of the Pacific Northwest have hunted the same species for at least as long, based on the evidence of bluefin bones in their middens. Stone Age artists painted Atlantic bluefin tuna on the walls of Sicilian caves. Iron Age fishermen—Phoenician, Carthaginian, Greek, Roman, Moroccan, Turkish—watched from promontories for the arrival of bluefin schools at their Mediterranean spawning grounds. 
“Bluefin helped build Western civilization,” Stanford University professor Barbara Block, a preeminent scholar of this fish, told me. “Across all the Mediterranean, everybody netted giant tuna. The bluefin have annual migrations in through the Strait of Gibraltar, and everyone knew when they came. In the Bosporus there were 30 different words for bluefin. Everyone put out net pens that had different names in the different countries. Penning created cash. Bluefin were traded. The coins of Greece and Celtic coins, they had giant bluefin on them.” 
“The king of all fish,” Ernest Hemingway reported in the Toronto Star Weekly in 1922, after seeing Atlantic bluefin off Spain. Carl Linnaeus, the father of modern scientific classification, named the Atlantic bluefin in 1758. Linnaeus often resorted to repetition in flagging superlative animals. Gulo gulo he named the wolverine, king of the weasels. Bison bison he named the bison, king of the prairie. Thunnus thynnus he named the Atlantic bluefin: tuna of tunas. 
The day dawned red-orange over Cape Breton, Nova Scotia. It was cold in Port Hood, down on the village dock, but the eastern sky was encouraging, a long horizon of warm color. We cast off, and Dennis Cameron, captain of the Bay Queen IV, steered north toward the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Along the back wall of the boat’s cabin, fishing rods were racked like rifles in an armory. In the open waters ahead, fishermen haul in the biggest bluefin tuna in the world. 
To starboard passed the big island of Cape Breton. To port passed a small outlier, Port Hood Island, low and green, with a scattering of white clapboard houses. Cameron grew up on Port Hood Island in one of those houses. He remembers squirrel hunting in the woods, and beachcombing for old buoys and gaffs, and collecting stranded squid as bait for his father—a vanished way of life. The big lobster cannery on the islet closed long ago. The waterfront, crowded with fishing dories in the 1920s, a forest of masts, is now deserted. Twenty-odd families of fishermen and farmers survived through the 1950s but steadily thinned, and the island now has just one full-time resident. 
And so it goes in fishing communities everywhere. The oceans are dying. The collapse of fisheries marks the decline, a steady funereal drumbeat: cod in the Maritime Provinces of Canada, anchovies off Peru, salmon off the Pacific Northwest, Patagonian toothfish in Antarctic waters, sharks in all the oceans. 
Bluefin tuna are among the most overfished species on Earth. The stock that spawns on the western side of the Atlantic has been reduced by 64 percent since 1970. The tonnara of Sicily—the mazes of net pens in which, for millennia, Sicilians have collected giant bluefin to kill in the ritualized climax called mattanza—have been folding one after another for decades, as have similar mazes, by different names, throughout the rest of the Mediterranean. 
Cameron, like any son of a Canadian fishing family, is familiar with the vogues and vicissitudes of his profession. “We didn’t fish tuna,” he says of his father’s generation. “Tuna fishing was more of a sport. Years ago they used to call it ‘horse mackerel.’ It was cat food back then, or fertilizer.” 
In January 2013 a single bluefin tuna sold in Tokyo for $1.76 million. The outrageous price was part publicity stunt, part Japanese ritual: The first tuna on the auction market each year is subject to a bidding war that’s over the top, even by Japanese standards. Yet even the normal price of one medium-size bluefin—between $10,000 and $20,000, depending on quality—is a startling measure of how much 21st-century Japanese have come to treasure maguro, bluefin sushi. It is a measure, too, of what the bluefin tuna is up against if more than a handful are to see the 22nd century. 
While Cameron steered toward deep water, Steve Wilson, a Stanford University researcher who works with the Tuna Research and Conservation Center (TRCC) in Monterey, California, checked the satellite tags he hoped to implant that day. Robbie Schallert, of the bluefin conservation group Tag-a-Giant and Wilson’s colleague at TRCC, unrolled a blue padded mat just forward of the “tuna door” in the transom at the stern. The mat did not read “Welcome,” but that was the idea. We had come to tag and measure bluefin, not to kill them. 
Eight miles offshore, drifting with three lines out baited with mackerel, we had a strike. Sheldon Gillis, Captain Cameron’s assistant, fought the fish. There was a tauttwang each time the bluefin took out line. Twenty minutes later, a good distance off the stern, the fish made its first appearance. Gillis judged it to be about 700 pounds. He reeled in furiously each time the tuna gave him the chance, and he was sweating now despite the cool of the morning. After another 20 minutes came the loud, slapping bang of tail fin against the stern. Hoisted aboard through the tuna door, the fish lay on its side, perfectly still and enormous on the mat. Out of water, it looked like some kind of wonderful machine, biologically inspired and poured of living metal. 
Wilson and his tagging team worked efficiently and fast, like a crew swarming an underwater racing machine at a pit stop. A wet black cloth went over the eyes as blindfold. A green hose went in the mouth and began pumping seawater past the gills. A roll of measuring tape flew over the fish, tossed from one man to another. The tape was laid flush against the body between the tip of the nose and the point where the tail fin forked. This measurement, the curved fork length, or CFL, in this fish was 300 centimeters, just short of ten feet. CFL is an accurate predictor of a tuna’s weight: 1,226 pounds in this case, nearly twice Gillis’s original estimate. It was the third biggest bluefin ever tagged by the team in nearly 20 years of work. 
Straddling the rear of the fish, Wilson drove in a titanium dart to anchor a satellite tag just forward of the second dorsal fin. Four team members took up positions at the corners of the blue mat and lifted. Clearing the deck, the mat became a hammock. Straining under the burden of the fish, the four men walked a semicircle of tiny mincing steps, rotating the fish 180 degrees to bring it around to face the tuna door. From the scimitar of the anal fin, Schallert snipped a sliver for DNA analysis. Then the two men at the tail hoisted their end of the mat. The tuna plunged through the doorway and back into the gulf, raising a splash like a horse diving off a pier. Two flicks of its tail fin and it was gone. 
On his laptop the night before, Wilson had programmed the satellite tag on this fish to pop off on June 1 of the next year. Nine months and two weeks from this day, in whatever time zone the bluefin happened to be, the tag would send an electric current through the metal pin attaching it to the leader and dart in the fish. The electrolyzed pin would begin to corrode. Within a few hours it would sever. A bulb on top of the tag is made of foam that’s incompressible and therefore buoyant at any depth. The tag would rise through the cathedral rays of the ocean toward the brightness of the vault. On breaking the surface, it would begin uploading the encoded secrets of this bluefin—its travels, its seasons, its dive patterns—to a small constellation of Argos satellites orbiting overhead. 
Block runs TRCC out of Hopkins Marine Station on Cannery Row, in collaboration with the Monterey Bay Aquarium next door. After the tag pops off at its programmed time, the satellite data rises from the Atlantic, jumps the continent to California, and comes home here to Hopkins Station for interpretation. Thirty years ago science was in the dark about the movements of tunas. Since then the mysteries of their migration, one after another, have been solved by tagging technology pioneered by Block and others. 
The interior of Block’s lab makes a sort of gallery. The walls and cabinet doors, plastered with charts, maps, and illustrations from scientific journals, amount to an exhibit. If it had a title, it might be called “State of the Bluefin.” 
The state of the bluefin is not good. One poster, “Estimated Spawning Stock Atlantic Bluefin Tuna (1950-2008),” shows a graph of the spawning biomass of Gulf of Mexico breeders atop a similar graph for the Mediterranean breeders. Both populations are represented by lines in the shape of eels, and both eels are diving toward the bottom of their graphs. They have plunged past the dotted line representing sustainable yield and are headed for a spot where the kilotons of spawning biomass read zero. 
The art on the maps is a kind of pointillism. The locations of bluefin, as reported by the many electronic tags deployed by the lab over the years, are represented as a proliferation of small circles in many colors. The maps of most interest to Block show the distribution of bluefin in relation to something called the ICCAT line. 
The fisheries for the Atlantic bluefin tuna are managed by the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas. ICCAT stock assessment models make use of a dotted line dividing the North Atlantic vertically. Drawn in 1981, this demarcation follows the meridian at 45° west longitude and divides the western stock of Atlantic bluefin from the eastern. The lab’s pointillist maps show a curious thing. The positions of electronically tagged western bluefin, represented as reddish-orange circles, pack the Gulf of Mexico, the spawning grounds for this stock, and from there spill eastward into the Atlantic. They cross the ICCAT line with impunity and spread all the way to Portugal and Spain. The positions of tagged eastern-breeding bluefin, represented as white circles, pack the Mediterranean, spawning grounds for this stock, and from there spill westward, crossing the ICCAT line to fill the coastal waters of the United States and Canada. 
The ICCAT line, the maps testify, is a fiction. Scientists once believed that each stock stayed on its own side of the ocean, but no one believes that now. Everywhere in the Atlantic, all across the feeding grounds of this species, the eastern and western stocks mix. It seems that only in their respective spawning grounds are they separate. 
The fact of this mixing was well established by Block, other taggers, and DNA researchers more than a decade ago. It has yet to be incorporated in ICCAT models. The best estimates today are that around half of the bluefin caught off the eastern shores of North America originated in the Mediterranean, yet any of these tuna, if caught in the west, are still counted as fish of western origin. The ICCAT line is not just a dull management tool—it is no tool at all. The ICCAT model fails, as well, to make any allowance for illegal fishing, though studies indicate that the illegal take is large. 
For most of its history, ICCAT has ignored the advice of its scientific panel, the Standing Committee on Research and Statistics (SCRS). For the eastern stock that breeds in the Mediterranean, the much larger population, ICCAT has routinely set quotas far higher than science recommends. In 2008 the SCRS issued its most alarming assessment yet on the status of the eastern stock. The actual catch, the scientists reported, was likely more than double the 28,500 metric tons of the allowable catch, and more than quadruple a level that was sustainable. They recommended closing the fishery through the main spawning period and reducing the allowable catch to 15,000 metric tons or less. ICCAT, as usual, ignored this plea. 
The same year, ICCAT commissioned an independent review of its policies. The review panel, composed of eminent fisheries managers and fisheries scientists from around the world, was not gentle. It found that ICCAT stewardship of the eastern stock was an “international disgrace” and a “travesty of fisheries management.” The U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the International Union for Conservation of Nature have chimed in with similar sentiments. Environmentalists joke that ICCAT stands for International Conspiracy to Catch All Tuna, but it’s no joke. It describes reality better than the official version. 
The good news is that a faction of fisheries biologists believe that Atlantic bluefin populations, if allowed to rebound, could grow to five times their present size and with wise management could yield healthy quotas forever. 
In 2009 Monaco, in response to the decades of mismanagement, proposed that the Atlantic bluefin be listed on Appendix I of CITES, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species. Such a listing would have meant an international ban on trade in bluefin, and CITES delegates from fishing nations rallied to defeat the proposal. But ICCAT had its wake-up call. That same year, for the first time, it followed scientific advice in setting quotas for eastern bluefin. In 2011, to address illegal fishing, it began testing a system that would electronically track caught fish from ocean to market, and early in 2014 the system is to be fully implemented. In 2015 ICCAT is committed to revising its antiquated stock-assessment protocols. 
This is movement in the right direction, but ICCAT’s structure and governance remain unchanged, vulnerable to political pressure from fishing interests in its member states. Tuna science, always politicized, has recently become much more so. As it is no longer possible for ICCAT to simply ignore scientific advice, there is now an effort to massage the science. “There are inherent uncertainties about these stock assessments,” Amanda Nickson, director of global tuna conservation at the Pew Charitable Trusts, told me. “We’re seeing a mining of the areas of uncertainty to justify increases in quota.” 
Industry-funded biologists propose that there might be undiscovered spawning grounds for Atlantic bluefin. It is possible, of course, but there is no real evidence for the proposition. The idea seems awfully convenient for an agenda favoring business as usual. 
Hopkins Station, established by Stanford University in 1892, was the first marine lab on the West Coast. Its weathered buildings, like the abandoned canneries immediately eastward, are relics of the age of sardines, a boom time that busted 60 years ago. The place is full of ghosts. Chief among them is Ed Ricketts, the inspiration for “Doc” in John Steinbeck’s Cannery Row. At night this maverick ecologist would leave Pacific Biological Laboratories, his rickety one-man enterprise at 800 Cannery Row, and sneak into the Hopkins library to do research. Ricketts and the sardine fishery went out together. The man was killed in 1948 at a Monterey train crossing, and the last canneries, hit by the locomotive of overfishing, closed a few years later. By the 1980s sardines had shown a fragile recovery, but now the stock is crashing again. 
A short stretch of beach and rocky shore separates Hopkins Station and the Monterey Bay Aquarium. Ricketts must have walked a nearby span of beach in his nighttime raids on the library. At the border between Hopkins and the aquarium, in an annex the two institutions operated jointly, are three large, waist-deep tanks stocked with young Pacific bluefin. Block and her colleagues worked out their tag-implantation techniques with the predecessors of these fish. 
The bluefin tuna, if it is to have a future, will need wise management informed by good science. Here in Monterey the consequences of the opposite are hard to miss. Directly below the tanks of endlessly circling bluefin are rows of cement pilings, the ruins of cannery piers that reach out into the bay for wide, silvery rivers of sardines that are no longer there. 
Kenneth Brower’s latest book is Hetch Hetchy: Undoing a Great American Mistake.Brian Skerry has spent more than 10,000 hours underwater. 
 