A Tale of Two Atolls 
One of a pair of tiny French territories tucked between Madagascar and southern Africa provides a mating area for green turtles. The other is home to Galápagos sharks. 
EUROPA 
 Clutched in the embrace of her partner, a female green turtle glides through indigo seas at Europa atoll, a vital breeding area for this endangered species.  
Picture two boulders dancing. That’s an approximation of green turtle sex: two sumo-size behemoths clipped to each other’s shells, finning languidly through the crystal waters of a coral reef. A reef such as the one that encircles Île Europa, off the southwestern coast of Madagascar, where on average more than 10,000 female green turtles congregate each year to mate, later going ashore to lay their eggs. 
Green turtles have a reproductive strategy known as “scramble polygamy.” Rather than expend energy defending a territory or engaging in combat, males focus their elephantine effort on finding an unattached female—or attempting to cut in on a mating in progress. Males have large claws on their flippers and tail, and use these to attach themselves to the shell of the female. Other males attempt to knock a successful paramour off his perch, jousting and biting and often wounding both members of the pair. 
Occasionally a hormone-addled rival will clip on to the shell of the mounted male. “This is going absolutely nowhere for male number two,” notes marine biologist Wallace J. Nichols. Nichols has seen stacks of up to four males, each clinging to the turtle in front. “When this sort of thing happens with earthworms in the garden, it’s merely curious,” he observes. “With 400-pound sea turtles, it’s a circus.” 
Europa’s turtle circus is rarely seen by human eyes. The island is a nature reserve, and its waters are protected. Like its neighbor, Bassas da India, 70-odd miles to the northwest, it is part of the Scattered Islands, five specks of land that ring Madagascar like moons. Remnants of the once mighty French colonial empire, they fly the Tricolor as part of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands. 
French sovereignty, though contested by Madagascar and other states, is strategic. The total land area of the Scattered Islands is a mere 16 square miles, but their collective exclusive economic zone is 15,000 times greater—an expanse of ocean almost the size of Texas. Crucially for the islands’ biodiversity, France curbs illegal fishing and turtle poaching. Military garrisons and a gendarmerie maintain a presence on several of the islands—Europa included—and naval ships patrol their waters. 
Although Europa and Bassas da India lie close together in the middle of the Mozambique Channel, they are very different places. Europa is a scrub-covered island that is home not only to nesting turtles but also to a million breeding pairs of seabirds. Bassas is an atoll that barely shows above the waterline and has a shark-filled lagoon the size of Manhattan. Both are among the last vestiges of healthy marine ecosystems in the western Indian Ocean—sanctuaries for wild nature in depleted seas. “On the surface these places look like nothing—like insignificant dots,” says marine biologist Thomas Peschak, who photographed this article. “But once you’ve dived here, you’re spoiled for the rest of your life.” 
The two islands occupy an expanse of ocean whose vexing currents and eddies have challenged mariners for centuries. Today’s marine scientists have found a way to study this environment without even going to sea. Because of the close ecological connection between seabirds and marine life, they can use birds as proxies for open-water species such as tuna. Many seabirds rely on these ocean-roaming hunters to drive prey to the surface, within reach of their bills and talons. 
Boobies and terns form low-flying flocks that track marine life from just above the surface. These network foragers fan out from their roosts on land, keeping each other in sight, ever alert in case one should encounter prey. Other species track the trackers, soaring to high altitudes to survey the panorama. Frigatebirds are supreme among the high fliers. These exceptional aerialists soar on thermals, rising up to a mile high to scan not just the sea but also the low-flying birds. When they spot a foraging flock, they swoop down on their jet-black, angular wings—seven feet from tip to tip—to snatch squid from the waves or take flying fish in midair. 
At Bassas da India there are no trees for seabirds to roost in and no beaches where turtles can lay their eggs. Bassas is a young atoll, still forming on its parent volcano, a seamount that erupted from the seabed almost two miles below the surface. From the air it looks like a blue plate with a bite-size chunk missing from its northeast rim. 
Where Europa has mangroves and a shallow lagoon that drains almost dry at low tide, Bassas has not a sprig of vegetation and a lagoon that’s up to 45 feet deep—a giant tropical aquarium full of young sharks. Nearly all are Galápagos sharks, a species often found around tropical islands but rarely in the concentrations seen here. Biologists, puzzled as to why Galápagos sharks should be so predominant at Bassas, have suggested that the limited range of habitats available in the comparatively barren Bassas lagoon favors these sharks, whereas in Europa’s lagoon the presence of mangroves and sea grasses offers habitat or refuge for other species. Bassas may offer a unique snapshot in a shark’s life history—and an all-too-uncommon example of a healthy juvenile population of a heavily exploited species. 
The ebbing tide at Bassas da India reveals the anchors of ships that have been wrecked on the reef over the centuries. In 1585 the Santiago, a 900-ton Portuguese vessel, split in two when it plowed into the reef in darkness. Imagine the horror as dawn revealed the passengers’ plight—a disintegrating ship, an intimidating expanse of reef, the lifeboats washed away or broken. More than 400 perished, and a trove of bullion spilled from the ship’s belly into the depths. 
In the 1970s divers recovered some of this treasure: silver coins, bronze cannon, jewels, an astrolabe. But these are mere baubles compared with the real wealth of Bassas da India and Europa—not the bullion of ancient ships but the biodiversity that flourishes in these tiny islands. 
Cosmic Dawn 
Witnessing the birth of stars would require a telescope larger in diameter than many cities. Say hello to ALMA. 
On a May morning two pickup trucks passed through the quiet town of San Pedro in Chile’s Atacama Desert and headed up a mountainside on a dirt road. It was 1994, and the five men inside the trucks were on a peculiar quest: to find the highest, driest, flattest place on the planet.They had already spent a week and a half scouting other locations in the Atacama, one on the Argentine side of the desert. Now, guided by a map obtained from the Chilean military by one of the men, a Chilean astronomer named Hernán Quintana, they were searching for a route up to the Chajnantor plateau—at 16,400 feet, almost as high as the two base camps serving climbers on Mount Everest. 
With the Andes Mountains forming a barrier to clouds gathering above the Amazon to the east, and the winds from the Pacific to the west picking up little moisture as they pass over the cold Peru Current (formerly called the Humboldt Current), the Atacama Desert is known to be among the driest places on Earth, with less than a half inch of rain a year on average. The desert’s remoteness and inhospitably thin, dry air—ideal for observing the night sky—had already lured several large, multinational telescope projects. For the most part, these were designed to view the fraction of the cosmos visible at optical wavelengths—the portion of the light spectrum that the human eye can see. Quintana and his companions were scouting a location for a different kind of telescope, one designed to penetrate the curtains of dust and gas that shroud galaxies, swirl around stars, and stretch through the expanses of interstellar space. The project would require some 20 years and more than a billion dollars to design and build. 
First, however, they had to find the right spot. 
Objects in the universe radiate energy in various wavelengths, depending on how hot or cold they are. Exploding supernovae, for instance, are extremely hot; in addition to emitting visible light equal to that of billions of suns, they release shortwave, high-energy x-rays and gamma rays, detectable by specialized telescopes such as NASA’s space-based Chandra X-ray Observatory. Toward the opposite, colder end of the spectrum are comets and asteroids, which shed infrared wavelengths longer than what our eyes and our optical telescopes can see. 
Much of the universe is colder still. The clouds of dust and gas from which stars are made are only slightly warmer than absolute zero—the temperature at which atoms come to a standstill. The birth of planets occurs in similar settings, seeded by fragments of dust and gas that clump together within the swirling fog that rotates around newly born stars. 
In the 1960s astronomers attempting to penetrate this “cold universe” quickly realized how challenging it was to use ground-based antennas to detect wavelengths in the millimeter and submillimeter range, even longer than infrared. Their first problem was how to cope with a gigantic amount of static. Unlike visible light, which travels through the planet’s atmosphere without much interference, millimeter and submillimeter waves are absorbed and distorted by water vapor, which emits radiation in the same band of the spectrum, adding earthly noise to waves arriving from the heavens. Millimeter and submillimeter waves also carry far less energy than visible light does, producing a weak signal even in a radio dish with an enormous collecting area. 
The solution scientists came up with was to arrange several antennas in an array on a site with very dry air, combining their signals so that they functioned together as a single telescope. By the 1980s several small arrays were operating in Japan, France, and in the United States, in Hawaii and California. Soon technological advances made it possible to contemplate a far larger radio array, an enormous lens with vastly more resolving power—provided a site could be found that was high and flat enough to expand the distance between antennas to whole miles. And if the dishes were portable, the distance between them could be adjusted to change the sensitivity of the telescope to reveal fine detail. Placed far apart, they could zoom in to focus on a small target such as a disk of dust around a star. Bunching the antennas together would have the effect of zooming out, which would be useful for imaging large objects such as a galaxy. 
Searching for an ideal setting for such a telescope, research groups from Europe, Japan, and the U.S. converged on the Atacama Desert. 
Hernán Quintana, who had pored over the military maps of the desert for weeks before the expedition in the spring of 1994, suspected that only the high ground above San Pedro de Atacama would satisfy all the requirements. But it wasn’t easy to get to. 
“The trip was slow and painful, because the tires kept getting stuck in sand,” remembers Riccardo Giovanelli of Cornell University, who accompanied Quintana, along with Angel Otárola from the European Southern Observatory (ESO) and Paul Vanden Bout and Robert Brown from the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO). Halfway up the road from San Pedro, Vanden Bout and Otárola’s truck broke down. The others made it to the top of the Jama Pass. 
“The sky was beautiful—it was the deepest blue one can expect to see,” Giovanelli says. One of the astronomers had brought along an instrument to measure water vapor. The volume of vapor in the air was lower than the group had ever encountered anywhere. “There was no doubt in anybody’s mind that somewhere nearby was the place,” Giovanelli says. A short time later, on a second scouting trip, Brown found the actual site, a wide, expansive plateau at the bottom of Cerro Chajnantor, a nearby peak. 
It was soon clear to all three international parties that by joining forces they could build a single array far more powerful than any one of them could alone. In 1999 the National Science Foundation and the ESO signed an agreement to work together. They settled on a plan to contribute 32 antennas apiece, each 12 meters in diameter, or about 40 feet. The Japanese agreed to provide 16 more antennas in a complementary array. 
Thus began an almost two-decade effort to transform one of the world’s loneliest spots into a bustling modern observatory. Land mines planted decades before by the Chilean military to deter incursions from Bolivia to the north had to be located and removed. Protracted negotiations were needed to persuade an oil company that was planning to run a pipeline through the site to reroute it. Prototype antennas were redesigned after testing in New Mexico. Costs mounted. Quarrels were joined and resolved. The NRAO and ESO couldn’t agree on a single antenna design, in part because each side wanted to support manufacturers on its own shores; in the end they chose two designs and two suppliers for their share of the antennas, reduced to 25 from each of the agencies. Then there was the little town of San Pedro, which had just two telephone lines and a single gas station. “We had to assemble a little city on the mountainside in the middle of nowhere,” says the NRAO’s Al Wootten, the lead North American scientist on the project. 
The first of the antennas—weighing more than a hundred tons—arrived from the U.S. at the Chilean port of Antofagasta in April 2007. Escorted by a convoy of police cars, a truck hauled the gigantic dish up the mountain, its progress occasionally interrupted by herds of llamas being shepherded across the road. 
Over the next five years the dishes continued to arrive. Setting them up to work collectively as a single telescope required astonishing precision. They would need to swivel together on command and point at the same target in the sky within a second and a half of one another. To merge their signals coherently, a massive supercomputer had to be installed on-site that was capable of adjusting, to within the width of a human hair, the distance the signals traveled through a cable from the antennas to the processing center—while compensating for the expansion and contraction of the cable due to temperature fluctuations. 
On a bright April morning a panoramic view of the plateau offers a striking juxtaposition of the ancient and the modern. The brown expanse is studded with white dishes that look tiny against the sky’s limitless azure backdrop. Up close, each of the 12-meter antennas towers above the ground, the dish’s surface glinting in the sun. Operated remotely from a base camp, they swivel gracefully in unison at the click of a button, belying their massive weight. Two custom-made 28-wheel transporters, nicknamed Otto and Lore, stand ready to move them to new locations on the plateau as needed. 
By the time it was officially inaugurated in March 2013, the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array—ALMA—had already begun to deliver on expectations. The year before, with only 16 antennas in operation, researchers led by Caltech’s Joaquin Vieira had peered through ALMA at 26 distant galaxies showing bursts of star formation. They were surprised to find that the galaxies were on average as far as 11.7 billion light-years away, meaning that their star production had been under way when the universe was barely two billion years old. Such frenetic star birth had previously been thought to have begun at least a billion years later. 
Since ALMA’s inauguration, there has been a steady stream of other discoveries. In July 2013 astronomers reported that the telescope’s observations had helped solve a long-standing puzzle: why massive galaxies are so rare in the universe. ALMA’s high-resolution images of the nearby Sculptor galaxy showed cold, dense gas billowing out from the center of the galactic disk. Astronomers concluded that the gas was being blasted out by winds from newly formed stars, a huge loss of starmaking material that could stymie the galaxy’s future growth. If confirmed in other galaxies, the phenomenon could solve the mystery. 
True to its promise, ALMA is also helping researchers understand how planets are born. Last year they reported on ALMA’s images of a disk of dust circling a young star—a nursery of planets. The images revealed what appeared to be a dust trap within the disk: a sheltered region where little grains of dust could stick to one another and, grain by grain, grow large enough to seed a planet. This was the first ever glimpse into the start of the planet-forming process. 
These observations are just the beginning. When all of the antennas come on line later this year, ALMA will conjure even finer details of galaxies and star systems. On an arid plateau a few miles from where shepherds once slept, our eyes will open upon an unseen universe. 
Legacy in Lace 
The isolated villages of Brittany, in the northwest corner of France, were once known for their distinctive headdresses and costumes. Now a younger generation is continuing the tradition. 
Climbing out of a tiny European car is challenging enough; it’s nearly impossible in a hat 13 inches tall. Yet Alexia Caoudal, 87, and Marie-Louise Lopéré, 90, manage to cantilever out of the backseat of a friend’s silver Citroën with remarkable dignity, if not grace. Their host hurries to greet them with such smiling deference that they might be royalty. 
Princesses they are not—the two women spent decades toiling in fish canneries. But Caoudal and Lopéré have achieved a certain celebrity in this bit of northwest France known as Bigouden country, in the Finistère region at the western edge of Brittany. They are the only women known to routinely wear the towering headdress, or coiffe, that was once a part of daily life here. 
Age has bent their bodies, but the stiff lace stands tall atop their waves of white hair, like a lighthouse signaling: Here is a Bigouden woman. 
Pride and Prejudice 
 Though covering only about 10,500 square miles, Brittany is the kind of place where local pride runs so deep that villagers will tell you a town ten miles away is “nowhere nearby.” In earlier times residents of different Breton communities could be identified by their distinctive costumes—and also mocked for them. People in neighboring villages gave teasing nicknames to one another’s headdresses, says Jean-Pierre Gonidec, collections manager at the Breton Museum in Quimper. The towering Bigouden coiffe, for instance, is still called le pain de sucre—the sugarloaf. Other coiffe nicknames: wheelbarrow and sardine head.  
There are dozens of Breton costumes, varying by village, occasion, and time period. The once simple caps used by peasant women for modesty and protection from the elements evolved into fantastic shapes and sizes in the 19th and 20th centuries, inspiring artists like Paul Gauguin. In those times the coiffe “was like an identity card,” says Solenn Boennec, an assistant curator at the Musée Bigouden in Pont-l’Abbé. “It can reveal who you are, where you’re from, and if you’re in mourning for someone.” 
By the 1950s, however, most young women had abandoned the old style. Today it lives on in Breton rituals and in social groups called Celtic circles, where young people like the ones in these portraits train year-round to compete in full costume at summer dance festivals. They also sometimes participate in weddings and a traditional religious pilgrimage, called a pardon, during the feast of a local patron saint. 
“It’s seen as less old-fashioned now than when we were younger,” says 20-year-old Apolline Kersaudy, who joined a Celtic group when she was six. “Other friends don’t understand why we can’t go on summer holidays with them. But the circle is more important.” 
Caoudal and Lopéré pull, comb, and pin their plaits up under a special black bonnet every morning, adding the lace top on Sundays and special occasions. Donning the full coiffe takes nearly half an hour and seems wildly impractical on this wet and windy edge of the North Atlantic. Is it comfortable? “We’re used to it,” says Caoudal, shrugging. Like others of their generation, the women speak a mixture of French and Breton, the regional language. Full of colliding consonants, it’s similar to Welsh, a reminder of Brittany’s Celtic heritage. 
Today’s youth guard that heritage with a fierce pride. “I am Breton, and I am French,” says Malwenn Mariel, 17, a member of the Pont-l’Abbé Celtic circle. “But I am Bigouden first.” 
A Bigouden woman is frank and unafraid, the girls in the circle say. She doesn’t let anyone walk all over her. Like her headdress, she is a tower of strength. 
Wild Obsession 
The perilous attraction of owning exotic pets 
All across the nation, in Americans’ backyards and garages and living rooms, in their beds and basements and bathrooms, wild animals kept as pets live side by side with their human owners. It’s believed that more exotic animals live in American homes than are cared for in American zoos. The exotic-pet business is a lucrative industry, one that’s drawn criticism from animal welfare advocates and wildlife conservationists alike. These people say it’s not only dangerous to bring captive-bred wildlife into the suburbs, but it’s cruel and it ought to be criminal too. Yet the issue is far from black or white. 
At least not to Leslie-Ann Rush, a horse trainer who lives on a seven-acre farm outside Orlando, Florida, a place where the wind makes a rustling sound when it whips through the palms. Rush, 57, who has a kind face and hair the color of corn, breeds and trains gypsy horses she houses in a barn behind her small petting zoo, a wire enclosure where three male kangaroos, four lemurs, a muntjac deer (originally from Asia), a potbellied pig, a raccoon-like kinkajou called Kiwi, and a dog named Dozer all live—the lemurs leaping freely, the kangaroos sleeping on their sides, the petite pig rooting in the ground, the Asian deer balancing its rack of antlers on its delicate head. 
Rush weaves in and around her exotic pets with ease and cheerfulness and Cheerios, doling them out to the lemurs. They thrust their humanlike hands into the open boxes and draw out fistfuls of O’s, which they eat almost politely, one by one, dining daintily while the drool gathers in the corners of their mouths. 
Rush has a ring-tailed lemur, Liam; two ruffed lemurs, Lolli and Poppi; and a common brown lemur named Charlie. While many lemurs are threatened, the ruffed lemurs are considered critically endangered in the wild. Rush believes that by caring for these captive-bred creatures she is doing her part to help keep lemurs alive on Earth, and she cares for her animals with a profound commitment that consumes her days and even her nights. As darkness falls, she moves from the small enclosure into her home and takes her favorite lemur with her; he shares her bed, coiled up on a pillow by her head. 
Because kangaroos are active typically at dawn and dusk, the animals look lazy in the daylight, dun-colored beasts lying on their sides in cylinders of sun, their thick tails trailing in the dry dirt. But come evening they hop up on their hind legs and press their faces against the large glass window, looking in on Rush in her home: Let me come in, they seem to say. Rush does not let them in, although she did when they were babies. “I have all of these amazing animals of different species, from different continents, and the thing is, they play together,” she says, and she sweeps her hand through the air, gesturing to her multicolored menagerie sunning, sleeping, snacking. She has filmed and posted videos of them playing on YouTube, the lemurs leaping over the kangaroos, which hop and twirl and chase the primates around the yard. 
Despite occasional reports of wild kangaroos attacking humans in Australia, Rush’s pets display not a hint of aggression. This may have something to do with the fact that kangaroos are naturally somnolent during daytime hours, and it may also have something to do with the fact that Rush’s kangaroos are no longer truly wild: They were bred in captivity; two of them have been neutered; they are used to human contact. Rush raised each kangaroo in diapers, bottle-fed it, and, touching the sleek suede fur continually, accustomed each animal to human hands. 
The $35 that Rush charges to visit what she calls her Exotic Animal Experience helps defray the costs involved in keeping her pets. Some exotic-animal owners spend thousands a year on fresh meat, for carnivores that dine daily on raw steak, for primates—omnivores with complex dietary needs—for snakes, which eat rat after rat after rat. In Rush’s case her kangaroos consume huge quantities of grain, while the lemurs eat mounds of fruits and vegetables. 
Rush herself lives a lean life, much of her own money poured into feeding her herd. And then there’s her time. She puts abundant hours into caring for her exotics. “They’re 24/7,” she says, and then goes on to add, “but they’re my family. They need me. I can’t explain to you what that feels like. I wake up every morning and come out here, and all my animals come rushing up to greet me. I feel loved, and that feels great. 
“My family,” she repeats, and a shadow sweeps across her face. “All my life,” she says, “people have let me down. My animals never have.” 
Privately owning exotic animals is currently permitted in a handful of states with essentially no restrictions: You must have a license to own a dog, but you are free to purchase a lion or baboon and keep it as a pet. Even in the states where exotic-pet ownership is banned, “people break the law,” says Adam Roberts of Born Free USA, who keeps a running database of deaths and injuries attributed to exotic-pet ownership: In Texas a four-year-old mauled by a mountain lion his aunt kept as a pet, in Connecticut a 55-year-old woman’s face permanently disfigured by her friend’s lifelong pet chimpanzee, in Ohio an 80-year-old man attacked by a 200-pound kangaroo, in Nebraska a 34-year-old man strangled to death by his pet snake. And that list does not capture the number of people who become sick from coming into contact with zoonotic diseases. 
The term exotic pet has no firm definition; it can refer to any wildlife kept in human households—or simply to a pet that’s more unusual than the standard dog or cat. Lack of oversight and regulation makes it difficult to pin down just how many exotics are out there. “The short answer is, too many,” says Patty Finch of the Global Federation of Animal Sanctuaries. It’s estimated that the number of captive tigers alone is at least 5,000—most kept not by accredited zoos but by private owners. And while many owners tend to their exotic pets with great care and at no small expense, some keep their pets in cramped cages and poor conditions. 
Commercially importing endangered species into the United States has been restricted since the early 1970s. Many of the large exotic animals that end up in backyard menageries—lions and tigers, monkeys and bears—are bred in captivity. Today on the Internet you can find zebras and camels and cougars and capuchins for sale, their adorable faces staring out from your screen; the monkeys with their intelligent eyes; the big cats with their tawny coats. And though such animals are no longer completely wild, neither are they domesticated—they exist in a netherworld that prompts intriguing questions and dilemmas. 
From his experience in providing sanctuary for exotic animals in need of new homes, often desperately, Roberts says that exotic-pet owners tend to fall into multiple overlapping categories. Some people treat their animals, especially primates, as surrogate children, dressing them up in baby clothes, diapering them, and training them to use the toilet. Some own exotics as symbols of status and power, the exotic animal the next step up from a Doberman or pitbull. There are impulse buyers who simply could not resist purchasing a cute baby exotic. Still others are collectors, like Brandon Terry, who lives in Wake County, North Carolina, in a one-bedroom apartment with 15 snakes, three of them venomous. And then there are wild animal lovers who may start out as volunteers at a wildlife sanctuary and end up adopting a rescued animal in need of a home. 
Denise Flores of Ohio explains how she acquired her first tiger. “I went to a wild animal park one day, and someone put a baby tiger in my lap. My heart melted; it just melted. I was hooked,” says Flores, who ended up caring for eight rescued big cats, including two white tigers so beautiful they looked like fluid ivory. 
Some people seek wild animals as pets as a way to reconnect with the natural world. They believe their exotics set them apart, the relationship made all the more intense by the unintended social isolation that is often the result of having an unpredictable beast as a companion. “Yes, of course my exotics make me feel unique,” Rush says. Though anyone can own a cat or dog, exotic-pet owners take pleasure in possessing an animal that has, for hundreds of thousands of years, refused the saddle of domestication: They take the uncivilized into society and in doing so assert their power. 
“I wanted something different, something unusual,” says Michelle Berk, formerly of Palisades, Florida, who bought her kinkajou, Winnie, on craigslist. “She was there for me to make my own. We didn’t get a dog because there’s nothing cool or outstanding about owning a dog. A kinkajou—now that seems untouchable. And who doesn’t want the untouchable? They say don’t touch it, so you want to touch it.” 
Tim Harrison understands the allure of owning exotic pets. Thirty-two years ago he worked as a public safety officer in the city of Oakwood, Ohio, and kept a menagerie in his house. He had snakes wrapped around lamp poles. He had rhesus monkeys leaping from counter to couch. He had lions sunning themselves on his gravel driveway. He had capuchins and bears and wolves, which were his favorites. 
After a hard day of chasing criminals or a boring day of ticketing cars, Harrison would change out of his uniform and drive home to his animals. He always went to the wolves first. His body aching, his mind numbed, he’d let the canines come to him, weaving around his legs. He’d drop down on his knees and then lie flat on his back, the wolves clambering over him. “I would just lie there and let them lick me,” Harrison says, “and it was one of the best feelings in the world.” 
Now the animals are gone. Harrison will never again own anything wild or exotic. He believes ownership of all potentially dangerous exotic animals should be banned and is working to make that happen. He underwent a profound transformation, his entire outlook shattered and put back together again in a new way. 
What happened is this: After decades of being an exotic-pet owner, Harrison went to Africa. He drove over the open plains and grasslands, and he can remember, all these years later, the giraffes’ long lope, the lions’ hypnotic canter, the elephants sucking water up their trunks and spraying themselves so their hides glistened. Harrison gazed upon these wild animals, and he says it was as if his eyes had been blistered shut and were suddenly opened as he witnessed these mammals moving in such profound harmony with their environment that you could hear it: a rhythm, a pulse, a roar. This, Harrison suddenly realized, was how wild animals are supposed to live. They are not supposed to live in Dayton or any other suburb or city; they are creatures in and of the land, and to give them anything less suddenly seemed wrong. 
 