Polar bears eat mainly ringed seals and bearded seals, captured on sea ice. On land they scrounge seabirds, eggs, even grass. This animal grazed for days below Rubini Rock—then chewed up the remote camera. The picture was made on a expedition for Pristine Seas, a National Geographic project to help protect the last wild places in our oceans. Photograph by Cory Richards for an upcoming story on Russia’s Franz Joseph Land archipelago.
In an unprecedented move Fifa has banned Uruguay’s Luis Suárez from all “football-related activities” for four months for biting Italy’s Giorgio Chiellini, ruling the striker out of the rest of the World Cup and the start of the domestic season.
The Liverpool player will not be able to play or train for his club or country for four months after Fifa’s disciplinary committee handed down the hefty sanction, which is sure to provoke dismay from Uruguay and Anfield.
The biting incident, the third in which Suárez has been involved in his career, has also led Fifa’s disciplinary committee to ban the player from entering any football stadium during the ban.
Suarez has also been banned for nine competitive international matches, beginning with Uruguay’s last-16 game with Colombia on Saturday, and fined £66,000.
However, Fifa clarified that Suarez’s ban from all “administrative” tasks related to football did not block any possible transfer from Liverpool during the period.
“Such behaviour cannot be tolerated on any football pitch, and in particular not at a World Cup when the eyes of millions of people are on the stars on the field,” said Claudio Sulser, the chair of the disciplinary committee, which met late into the night in Rio de Janiero.
“The disciplinary committee took into account all the factors of the case and the degree of Mr Suárez’s guilt in accordance with the relevant provisions of the code. The decision comes into force as soon it is communicated.”
The ban means that Suárez, whom Brendan Rodgers hailed as a reformed character last season as he won both footballer of the year prizes, will miss nine Premier League matches and three Champions League games.
Although Uruguay can appeal the decision, it will not stop Suárez being banned from Saturday’s match because under article 124 of the Fifa disciplinary code it does not have a “suspensive effect”.
Before Fifa announced their judgment, the Uruguayan FA and even the country’s president had weighed into the issue in support of Suárez.
They claimed that Suárez was the target of a conspiracy among the Italians, the English media and the Brazilian hosts to make more of the incident than it warranted.
“You shouldn’t forget that we’re rivals of many and we can be for the hosts [Brazil] in the future. This does not go against what might have happened but there’s no doubt that Suárez is a stone in the shoe for many,” said his lawyer Alejandro Balbi.
Television pictures of the incident seemed clear. The ban – added to previous penalties for racially abusing Manchester United’s Patrice Evra and for biting Chelsea’s Branislav Ivanovic, mean that Suárez will have been suspended for 34 matches since 2010 without receiving a red card on the pitch.
Liverpool’s chief executive Ian Ayre said: “Liverpool will wait until we have seen and had time to review the Fifa disciplinary committee report before making any further comment.”
e sky was clear on the August morning when I woke before sunrise at Thousand Island Lake in the High Sierra Mountains near Yosemite National Park. I was photographing a story for National Geographic magazine in an area known as the Ansel Adams Wilderness, which is named for the famous landscape photographer whose art celebrated the beauty of the region. A cloudless day like this would likely have been met with a lack of enthusiasm by Adams, who once referred to these as “bald-headed days”—when the bright sun would reflect off his bald head and there would be many hours of unappealing light for photography. There are, however, a few minutes of nice light at sunrise in the east-facing landscapes of the Sierra Nevada, so it is important to rise early.

I gathered my camera and climbed up a small hill above my campsite for a view of the lake, the islands, and Banner Peak in the distance. The first light on the peak was not special, but the sunlit mountains reflecting on the water with a bit of snow pack in the background created a nice interplay of the alpine elements below. I hiked back down the hill to camp and fixed my breakfast—two packs of instant oatmeal and a cup of coffee. Breakfast always tastes good knowing that you had made one nice photo already and the day was still young.
The rover was originally slated for a mission lasting just one Martian year, but the mission already has been extended for as long as its battered wheels can keep going.

Curiosity snaps its selfies by sticking out its robotic arm, turning the camera on the end of the arm toward itself and taking lots of pictures. The images are stitched together to create a mosaic — but because of the way they were taken, the robotic arm never appears in the picture.

This selfie shows a couple of the holes that Curiosity drilled in a rock nicknamed Windjana. For more of Curiosity's self-portraits, check out this wide-angle shot from April, and a couple oScientists have just discovered a distant galaxy with not one but three supermassive black holes at its core.

The new finding suggests that tight-knit groups of these giant black holes are far more common than previously thought, and it potentially reveals a new way to easily detect them, researchers say. Supermassive black holes millions to billions of times the mass of the sun are thought to lurk at the hearts of virtually every large galaxy in the universe.

Sign up for Science news delivered to your inbox

Most galaxies have just one supermassive black hole at their center. However, galaxies evolve through merging, and merged galaxies can sometimes possess multiple supermassive black holes. See amazing photos of galaxy mergers	

Astronomers observed a galaxy with the alphabet soup name of SDSS J150243.09+111557.3, which they suspected might have a pair of supermassive black holes. It lies about 4.2 billion light-years away from Earth, said Roger Deane, a radio astronomer at the University of Cape Town in South Africa.f selfies from more than a year ago. More than an Earth year ago, that is.
To investigate this galaxy, the scientists combined the signals from large radio antennas separated by up to 6,200 miles (10,000 kilometers). The technique helped researchers see details 50 times finer than is possible with the Hubble Space Telescope.

The astronomers discovered that the galaxy was not home to two supermassive black holes, but three. "All three of the black holes have masses around 100 million times that of the sun," Deane told Space.com.

Scientists had previously known of four triple black-hole systems. However, the closest pairs of black holes in those triplets are about 7,825 light-years apart. In this newfound trio of supermassive black holes, the closest pair of black holes is only about 455 light-years apart.

Closely orbiting black holes are expected to generate ripples in the fabric of space and time known as gravitational waves, which are theoretically detectable even from across the universe.

The scientists detailed their findings in this week's issue of the journal Nature
After packing up, I started thinking of a plan for the day, the seventh of my eight-day backpack trip with Tobin, my hiking guide. Eight days were as long as we could go without leaving the wilderness for a re-supply of food and a recharge of camera batteries. Our packs were now lighter, but we were getting a little weary, too.

We decided to head towards Garnet Lake and then continue on to Shadow Lake, 6.5 miles away, and camp there on our last night.

The day before there had been some afternoon clouds over Thousand Island Lake, but they had covered the sun and not much of a storm developed. Ansel Adams had made a famous photo of thunderclouds behind Thousand Island Lake in 1923. I wanted to try to get some photos of thunderstorm clouds for the story, but during the first six days I had not succeeded.

Tobin hiked on ahead and I told him to wait at Garnet Lake. We could have lunch there and see if by chance clouds would start to develop. In Northern California, summer winds coming from the west pick up moisture over the Pacific Ocean, and when they hit the Sierra Nevada mountains clouds often form from the pressure difference. I got to Garnet Lake a little bit after noon, and stopped for a lunch of trail mix, a couple of Clif Bars and some Gatorade. I didn’t see Tobin anywhere, but started to see a few clouds developing behind Banner Peak. I took out my camera and pretty soon things were looking promising. I kept shooting as the sun went in and out of the clouds and a large bank of clouds filled up the sky behind the ridgeline. At about 3 p.m., the sun went behind the clouds and the scene went flat. Then at 3:17 p.m., the sun broke through, shining brightly on the lake with the clouds in shadow. A minute later both the lake and clouds were illuminated. It was raining slightly and I was working furiously to keep the lens dry because I knew these lighting conditions were very special and ephemeral. Eventually, the storm moved towards me and heavy rain set in for about 15 minutes. Then everything cleared up and Tobin came out from under a big tree where he had been watching the storm (and me) for the whole afternoon. The picture that I took at 3:18 p.m. turned out to be the cover of the book and the ending photograph in the magazine story.

Picture of thunderclouds over Garnet Lake
Thunderclouds, Garnet Lake, 3:18 p.m. Launch Gallery
We were a little behind schedule, but still wanted to make it to Shadow Lake before dark. I put away my rain gear and quickly started down the trail. At about dusk, I was walking next to Shadow Creek and quite close to the point where it enters Shadow Lake. To the right of the trail I saw a small cascade and a large log in the creek. There was still some sunlight on the mountains above reflecting into the shadows of the deep canyon. I hurriedly set up my tripod and was able to make a 20-second exposure in the beautiful twilight.

Picture of Shadow Creek
Shadow Creek, 7:54 p.m. Launch Gallery
When I got to our campsite I was quite tired, but realized that it had been a great day for photography. I had made three pictures that I was proud of in a single day, which for me is quite special. The photo gods had looked favorably on me on this beautiful August day in the Ansel Adams wilderness.

Peter Essick’s monograph, The Ansel Adams Wilderness, was published in April 2014. You can see more pictures from the magazine story “Ansel Adams Wilderness” here. Essick was the editor for one of April’s Your Shot Assignments, Nature in Black and White. You can also see more of Essick’s work on his website and by following him on Instagram.

To learn more about experiencing the Ansel Adams wilderness with Essick, check out the National Geographic photo expedition to Yosemite National Park.

Related Story: Conversation With Abelardo Morell and Peter Essick
r portrait photographer Martin Schoeller, known for his signature eye-to-eye, full-face portraits, the least of his worries is having his subject stand still on the X marked on his seamless background. But when it came to a three-legged decorated war hero, one leg lost to surgery after taking four rounds from an AK-47, this was exactly the problem.

Picture of the photographer using tennis balls to help Layka the dog post for a photo.
Layka, a Belgian Malinois, a breed known to have inexhaustible energy—the highest of all dog breeds—graces the June cover of National Geographic magazine. “She was a celebrity in her own right,” Martin said, and after capturing a few frames, “I knew I had my hands full.”

Martin was going for a dignified look, fitting of a war dog that almost gave her life to save a squad of soldiers in Afghanistan. “The dog is basically a soldier and we treated her with the respect of a military person,” Martin said. “She’s not a lap dog that sits on the sofa, but a disciplined fighting dog.” He wanted to capture her in this spirit. To do that, Martin knew he had to photograph her with her mouth closed. And that was the tough part.

“The close-up was harder than I thought it was going to be, the dog was so full energy,” Martin said. She was “like the energy bunny and never slowed down.” As a result she got hot during the shoot and was heavily panting—and out came her tongue. The dog just couldn’t sit still.

Picture of several takes of Layka the dog's portrait 
“We took her outside to run a bit of energy out of her, and she was so quick on her feet that I you couldn’t even tell that she only had three legs.” But that didn’t seem to slow her down. “We used the tennis ball, made noise, jangled keys trying to capture her attention like a baby,” Martin said. He gave up on the tennis ball because she just got too excited when she saw it and lurched off the X.

So Martin hunkered down, lowered the thermostat to 62 F and got to work. Layka’s owner, Staff Sgt. Julian McDonald, was at her side, comforting and encouraging his dog with all his love and affection.

Picture of the final image of Layka the dog that was used for the June 2014 of National Geographic magazine
Exceptional portrait photographers have the ability to connect soul-to-soul with their subjects. Mentally bobbing and weaving like a boxer in a ring to capture that elusive moment—the twinkle in the eye, the sought after expression, the special facial gesture, until they know they have it. Martin went several rounds before he landed what he knew was the knockout punch. He connected with Layka for a split second and grabbed the prize he was after.

See a video about the special relationship between Layka and Staff Sgt. Julian McDonald.

Read more about the June 2014 feature story, The Dogs of War


You can hear Martin Schoeller speak about intimate portraiture on Proof. To see more of Schoeller’s work, visit his website.

Related Story: Conversation: On War Dogs and Perseverance
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is the seventh and final novel of the Harry Potter series, written by British author J. K. Rowling. The book was released on 21 July 2007 by Bloomsbury Publishing in the United Kingdom, in the United States by Scholastic, and in Canada by Raincoast Books, ending the series that began in 1997 with the publication of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. The novel chronicles the events directly following Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005), and the final confrontation between the wizards Harry Potter and Lord Voldemort.

Rowling finished writing Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows in January 2007. Before its release, Bloomsbury reportedly spent 10 million to keep the book's contents safe before its release date. American publisher Arthur Levine refused any copies of the novel to be released in advance for press review, although two reviews were submitted early. Shortly before release, photos of all 759 pages of the U.S. edition were leaked and transcribed, leading Scholastic to look for the source that had leaked it.

Released globally in 93 countries, Deathly Hallows broke sales records as the fastest-selling book ever, a record it still holds today.3 It sold 15 million copies in the first 24 hours following its release, including more than 11 million in the U.S. and UK alone. The previous record, 9 million in its first day, had been held by Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. The novel has also been translated into over 120 languages, including Ukrainian, Swedish, and Hindi.

Major themes in the novel are death and living in a corrupted society, and critics have compared them to Christian allegories. Generally well-received, the book won the 2008 Colorado Blue Spruce Book Award, and the American Library Association named it a "Best Book for Young Adults". A two-part film adaptation began showing in November 2010 when Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 was released; Part 2 was released on 15 July 2011.
Following Dumbledore's death, Voldemort continues to gain support and increase his power. When Harry turns seventeen, the protection he has at his aunt and uncle's house will be broken. Before that can happen, at Mad Eye Moody's suggestion, Harry flees to the Burrow with his friends, many of whom use Polyjuice Potion to impersonate him so as to confuse any Death Eaters that may attack. They are indeed attacked shortly after leaving Privet Drive; Mad Eye is killed, and George Weasley wounded, but the rest arrive safely at the Burrow. Ron and Hermione decide to accompany Harry, instead of returning to Hogwarts School for their seventh year, to finish the quest Dumbledore started: to hunt and destroy Voldemort's four remaining Horcruxes. They have little knowledge about the remaining Horcruxes except that one is a locket once owned by Hogwarts' co-founder Salazar Slytherin, one is possibly a cup once owned by co-founder Helga Hufflepuff, a third may be connected with co-founder Rowena Ravenclaw, and the fourth may be Nagini, Voldemort's snake familiar. The whereabouts of the founders' objects is unknown, and Nagini is presumed to be with Voldemort. Before leaving, they attend Ron's brother's Bill's wedding to Fleur Delacour, with Harry disguised by Polyjuice Potion, but the Ministry of Magic is taken over by Death Eaters during the wedding and they barely escape with their lives.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione flee to 12 Grimmauld Place in London, which is Sirius Black's family's house, where they learn from the house-elf Kreacher the whereabouts of Salazar Slytherin's locket, which Sirius' brother Regulus stole from Voldemort at the cost of his own life. They successfully recover this Horcrux by infiltrating the Ministry of Magic and stealing it from Dolores Umbridge. Under the object's evil influence and the stress of being on the run, Ron leaves the others. As Harry and Hermione search for the Horcruxes, they learn more about Dumbledore's past, including the insanity and death of Dumbledore's younger sister and his connection to the evil wizard Grindewald. Harry and Hermione ultimately travel to Godric's Hollow, Harry's birthplace and the place where his parents died. They meet the elderly magical historian Bathilda Bagshot, who turns out to be Nagini in disguise and attacks them. They escape into the Forest of Dean, where a mysterious silver doe that appears to be a Patronus leads Harry to the Sword of Hogwarts co-founder Godric Gryffindor, one of the few objects able to destroy Horcruxes, lying at the bottom of an icy lake. When Harry attempts to recover the sword from the pool, the Horcrux attempts to kill him. Ron reappears, saving Harry and then using the sword to destroy the locket. Resuming their search, the trio repeatedly encounter a strange symbol that an eccentric wizard named Xenophilius Lovegood tells them represents the mythical Deathly Hallows. The Hallows are three sacred objects: the Elder Wand, an unbeatable wand; the Resurrection Stone, with the power to summon the dead to the living world; and an infallible Invisibility Cloak. Harry learns that Voldemort is seeking the Elder Wand, recognises the Resurrection Stone from the second Horcrux, which Dumbledore had destroyed, and realises that his own Invisibility Cloak is the one mentioned in the story, but he is unaware of the Hallows' significance.

The trio are captured and taken to Malfoy Manor, where Bellatrix Lestrange tortures Hermione. Harry and Ron are thrown in the cellar, where they find Luna Lovegood, Ollivander, Dean Thomas, and Griphook. They escape to Shell Cottage (Bill and Fleur's house) with Dobby's help, but at the cost of the house-elf's life. Harry now realises that the Hallows may have the power to defeat Death and knows that Voldemort robbed Dumbledore's tomb to procure the Elder Wand, but he decides to focus on finding the Horcruxes instead of the Hallows. With Griphook's help, they learn that Helga Hufflepuff's cup – a Horcrux – is hidden in Bellatrix's vault at Gringotts, break into her vault, retrieve the cup, and escape on a dragon, with Griphook swiping the sword and escaping on his own. From his connection to Voldemort's thoughts, Harry learns that another Horcrux is hidden in Hogwarts, which is under the control of Severus Snape. Harry, Ron, and Hermione enter the school through Hogsmeade (being saved by Aberforth Dumbledore, who explains more about Albus's backstory) and – with the help of the teachers – Snape is ousted from the school. Ron and Hermione go to the Chamber of Secrets and destroy the cup using a basilisk fang. The trio then finds Rowena Ravenclaw's diadem (another Horcrux) in the Room of Requirement. Vincent Crabbe casts a Fiendfyre curse in an attempt to kill Harry, Ron, and Hermione, but he instead destroys the diadem, the Room of Requirement, and himself. At this point, a total of five Horcruxes have been destroyed.

The Death Eaters and Voldemort besiege Hogwarts, while Harry, Ron, Hermione, their allies, and various magical creatures defend the school. Several major characters are killed in the first wave of the battle, including Remus Lupin, Nymphadora Tonks, and Fred Weasley. Voldemort kills Severus Snape because he believes doing so will make him the Elder Wand's true master, since Snape killed Dumbledore. Harry discovers while viewing Snape's memories that Voldemort inadvertently made Harry into a seventh Horcrux when he attacked him as a baby, which is the true significance of Harry's scar, and that Harry must die in order to destroy Voldemort. These memories also confirm Snape's unwavering loyalty to Dumbledore and that his role as a double-agent against Voldemort never wavered after Voldemort killed Lily Evans, Harry's mother and Snape's one true love. Harry also learns that Dumbledore had less than a year to live when he died, that his death by Snape's hand had been per Dumbledore's request, and that Dumbledore had known that Harry must die. After using the Resurrection Stone to bring back his deceased loved ones for a short while, Harry surrenders himself to death at Voldemort's hand. Voldemort casts the Killing Curse at him, but it only sends Harry into a limbo-like state between life and death. Harry appears to be at Kings Cross Station, a place he regards as a link between 2 worlds (muggle and wizarding worlds) as he is currently in a place between the world of life and the land of the dead.

While in this state, Dumbledore's spirit explains to Harry that when Voldemort used Harry's blood to regain his full strength, it protected Harry from Voldemort killing him; however, the Horcrux inside Harry has been destroyed, and Harry can return to his body despite being hit by the Killing Curse. Dumbledore also explains that Harry became the true master of the Deathly Hallows by facing Death, not by seeking to avoid it or conquer it. Harry returns to his body, feigning death, and Voldemort marches victoriously into the castle with his body. However, per Harry's prior instructions, Neville Longbottom kills Nagini, the last Horcrux, with the Sword of Gryffindor. Harry then reveals that he is still alive, and the battle resumes, with Bellatrix Lestrange being killed by Molly Weasley.


Harry and Voldemort engage in a final climactic duel. Harry reveals that because he willingly sacrificed himself to death by Voldemort's hand, his act of love would protect the Wizarding community from Voldemort in the same way the sacrifice Harry's mother made protected Harry. Harry also reveals that Snape was not loyal to Voldemort, did not murder Dumbledore, and was never the master of the Elder Wand. Instead, Draco was the master of the Elder Wand after disarming Dumbledore, but, because Harry had disarmed Draco at Malfoy Manor, Harry is the true master of the Elder Wand. Harry claims that the wand will refuse to kill the one to whom it owes allegiance, further protecting Harry. During the duel, Harry refuses to use the killing curse and even encourages Voldemort to feel remorse, one known way to restore Voldemort's shattered soul. Voldemort dies when his own killing curse backfires against Harry's disarming curse, killing himself; the Death Eaters are finally defeated. The wizarding world is able to live in peace once more. more.
How to Win Friends and Influence People was first published in 1937 
in an edition of only five thousand copies. Neither Dale Carnegie nor 
the publishers, Simon and Schuster,anticipated more than this 
modest sale. To their amazement, the book became an overnight 
sensation, and edition after edition rolled off the presses to keep up 
with the increasing public demand. Now to Win Friends and 
InfEuence People took its place in publishing history as one of the 
all-time international best-sellers. It touched a nerve and filled a 
human need that was more than a faddish phenomenon of postDepression days, as evidenced by its continued and uninterrupted 
sales into the eighties, almost half a century later. 
Dale Carnegie used to say that it was easier to make a million dollars 
than to put a phrase into the English language. How to Win Friends 
and Influence People became such a phrase, quoted, paraphrased, 
parodied, used in innumerable contexts from political cartoon to 
novels. The book itself was translated into almost every known 
written language. Each generation has discovered it anew and has 
found it relevant. 
Which brings us to the logical question: Why revise a book that has 
proven and continues to prove its vigorous and universal appeal? 
Why tamper with success? 
To answer that, we must realize that Dale Carnegie himself was a 
tireless reviser of his own work during his lifetime. How to Win 
Friends and Influence People was written to be used as a textbook 
for his courses in Effective Speaking and Human Relations and is still 
used in those courses today. Until his death in 1955 he constantly 
improved and revised the course itself to make it applicable to the 
evolving needs of an every-growing public. No one was more 
sensitive to the changing currents of present-day life than Dale 
Carnegie. He constantly improved and refined his methods of 
teaching; he updated his book on Effective Speaking several times. 
Had he lived longer, he himself would have revised How to Win 
Friends and Influence People to better reflect the changes that have 
taken place in the world since the thirties. 
Many of the names of prominent people in the book, well known at 
the time of first publication, are no longer recognized by many of 
today's readers. Certain examples and phrases seem as quaint and 
dated in our social climate as those in a Victorian novel. The 
important message and overall impact of the book is weakened to 
that extent. 
Our purpose, therefore, in this revision is to clarify and strengthen 
the book for a modern reader without tampering with the content. 
We have not "changed" How to Win Friends and Influence People 
except to make a few excisions and add a few more contemporary 
examples. The brash, breezy Carnegie style is intact-even the thirties 
slang is still there. Dale Carnegie wrote as he spoke, in an intensively 
exuberant, colloquial, conversational manner. 
So his voice still speaks as forcefully as ever, in the book and in his 
work. Thousands of people all over the world are being trained in 
Carnegie courses in increasing numbers each year. And other 
thousands are reading and studying How to Win Friends and 
lnfluence People and being inspired to use its principles to better 
their lives. To all of them, we offer this revision in the spirit of the 
honing and polishing of a finely made tool.
Nine Suggestions on How to Get the Most Out of This Book 
1. If you wish to get the most out of this book, there is one 
indispensable requirement, one essential infinitely more important 
than any rule or technique. Unless you have this one fundamental 
requisite, a thousand rules on how to study will avail little, And if you 
do have this cardinal endowment, then you can achieve wonders 
without reading any suggestions for getting the most out of a book. 
What is this magic requirement? Just this: a deep, driving desire to 
learn, a vigorous determination to increase your ability to deal with 
people. 
How can you develop such an urge? By constantly reminding yourself 
how important these principles are to you. Picture to yourself how 
their mastery will aid you in leading a richer, fuller, happier and more 
fulfilling life. Say to yourself over and over: "My popularity, my 
happiness and sense of worth depend to no small extent upon my 
skill in dealing with people." 
2. Read each chapter rapidly at first to get a bird's-eye view of it. 
You will probably be tempted then to rush on to the next one. But 
don't - unless you are reading merely for entertainment. But if you 
are reading because you want to increase your skill in human 
relations, then go back and rereadeach chapter thoroughly. In the 
long run, this will mean saving time and getting results. 
3. Stop frequently in your reading to think over what you are 
reading. Ask yourself just how and when you can apply each 
suggestion. 
4. Read with a crayon, pencil, pen, magic marker or highlighter in 
your hand. When you come across a suggestion that you feel you 
