The small lifeboat bounced from wave to wave in the rough seas of the Atlantic.  The four men in the boat could not see the sky.  The waves rose too high.
The waves with their white tops pushed at the open boat with angry violence.  Every man thought each wave would be his last. Surely, the boat would sink and he would drown.  The men thought that most adults would need a bathtub larger than the boat they were sailing.  The waves were huge, and each created a problem in guiding the direction of the boat.
For two days, since the ship sank, the four men had been struggling to reach land.  But there was no land to be seen.  All the men saw were violent waves which rose and came fiercely down on them.
The men sat in the boat, wondering if there was any hope for them.  The ship's cook sat in the bottom of the boat.  He kept looking at the fifteen centimeters which separated him from the ocean.
The boat had only two wooden oars.  They were so thin – it seemed as if they would break against the waves.  The sailor, named Billie, directed the boat's movement with one of the oars.  The newspaper reporter pulled the second oar.  He wondered why he was there in the boat.
The fourth man was the captain of the ship that had sunk.  He lay in the front of the small boat.  His arm and leg were hurt when the ship sank.  The captain's face was sad.  He had lost his ship and many of his sailors.  But he looked carefully ahead, and he told Billie when to turn the boat.
"Keep her a little more south, Billie,” he said.
"A little more south, sir,” the sailor repeated.
Sitting in the boat was like sitting on a wild horse.  As each wave came, the boat rose and fell, like a horse starting toward a fence too high to jump.  The problem was that after successfully floating over one wave you find that there is another one behind it just as strong and ready to flood your boat.
As each wall of water came in, it hid everything else that the men could see.  The waves came in silence; only their white tops made threatening noises.
In the weak light, the faces of the men must have looked gray.  Their eyes must have shone in strange ways as they looked out at the sea.  The sun rose slowly into the sky.  The men knew it was the middle of the day because the color of the sea changed from slate gray to emerald green, with gold lights.  And the white foam on the waves looked like falling snow.
As the lifeboat bounced from the top of each wave, the wind tore through the hair of the men.  As the boat dropped down again the water fell just past them.  The top of each wave was a hill, from which the men could see, for a brief period, a wide area of shining sea.
The cook said the men were lucky because the wind was blowing toward the shore.  If it started blowing the other way, they would never reach land.  The reporter and the sailor agreed.  But the captain laughed in a way that expressed humor and tragedy all in one.  He asked: "Do you think we've got much of a chance now, boys?”
This made the others stop talking.  To express any hope at this time they felt to be childish and stupid.  But they also did not want to suggest there was no hope.  So they were silent.
"Oh, well,” said the captain, "We'll get ashore all right"
But there was something in his voice that made them think, as the sailor said: "Yes, if this wind holds!”
Seagulls flew near and far.  Sometimes the birds sat down on the sea in groups, near brown seaweed that rolled on the waves.  The anger of the sea was no more to them than it was to a group of chickens a thousand miles away on land.  Often the seagulls came very close and stared at the men with black bead-like eyes.  The men shouted angrily at them, telling them to be gone.
The sailor and the reporter kept rowing with the thin wooden oars.  Sometimes they sat together, each using an oar.  Sometimes one would pull on both oars while the other rested.  Brown pieces of seaweed appeared from time to time.  They were like islands, bits of earth that did not move.  They showed the men in the boat that it was slowly making progress toward land.
Hours passed.  Then, as the boat was carried to the top of a great wave, the captain looked across the water.
He said that he saw the lighthouse at Mosquito Inlet.  The cook also said he saw it.  The reporter searched the western sky.
"See it?” said the captain.
"No,” said the reporter slowly, "I don't see anything"
"Look again,” said the captain.  He pointed.  "It's exactly in that direction"
This time the reporter saw a small thing on the edge of the moving horizon.  It was exactly like the point of a pin.
"Think we'll make it, captain?” he asked.
"If this wind holds and the boat doesn't flood, we can't do much else,” said the captain.
It would be difficult to describe the brotherhood of men that was here established on the sea.  Each man felt it warmed him.  They were a captain, a sailor, a cook and a reporter.  And they were friends.  The reporter knew even at the time that this friendship was the best experience of his life.
All obeyed the captain.  He was a good leader.  He always spoke in a low voice and calmly.
"I wish we had a sail,” he said, "to give you two boys a chance to rest"  So they used his coat and one of the oars to make a sail and the boat moved much more quickly.
The lighthouse had been slowly growing larger.  At last, from the top of each wave the men in the boat could see land. Slowly, the land seemed to rise from the sea.  Soon, the men could see two lines, one black and one white.
They knew that the black line was formed by trees, and the white line was the sand.  At last, the captain saw a house on the shore.  And the lighthouse became even larger.
"The keeper of the lighthouse should be able to see us now,” said the captain. "He'll notify the life-saving people"
Slowly and beautifully, the land rose from the sea.  The wind came again.  Finally, the men heard a new sound – the sound of waves breaking and crashing on the shore.
"We'll never be able to make the lighthouse now,” said the captain.  "Swing her head a little more north, Billie"
"A little more north, sir,” said the sailor.
The men watched the shore grow larger.  They became hopeful.  In an hour, perhaps, they would be on land.  The men struggled to keep the boat from turning over.
 They were used to balancing in the boat.  Now they rode this wild horse of a boat like circus men.  The water poured over them.
The reporter thought he was now wet to the skin.  But he felt in the top pocket of his coat and found eight cigars.  Four were wet, but four were still dry.  One of the men found some dry matches.  Each man lit a cigar.  The four men sailed in their boat with the belief of a rescue shining in their eyes.  They smoked their big cigars and took a drink of water.
ANNOUNCER: Today we tell a traditional American story called a "tall tale."  A tall tale is a story about a person who is larger than life. The descriptions in the story are exaggerated – much greater than in real life.  Long ago, the people who settled in undeveloped areas of America first told tall tales. After a hard day's work, people gathered to tell each other stories.
Each group of workers had its own tall tale hero. An African American man named John Henry was the hero of former slaves and the people who built the railroads.  He was known for his strength.
Railroads began to link the United States together in the nineteenth century.  The railroads made it possible to travel from one side of the country to the other in less than a week. Before then, the same trip might have taken up to six months.
Railroad companies employed thousands of workers to create the smooth, flat pathways required by trains.  John Henry was perhaps the most famous worker.  He was born a slave in the southern United States.   He became a free man as a result of America's Civil War. Then, he worked for the railroads.
Confirming details of John Henry's life is not possible. That is because no one knows or sure if he really lived. This is one of the things that makes his story interesting.  However, John Henry is based, in part, on real events.  Many people say he represents the spirit of growth in America during this period.
Now, here is Shep O'Neal with our story.
STORYTELLER:  People still talk about the night John Henry was born.  It was dark and cloudy.  Then, lightening lit up the night sky.  John Henry's birth was a big event.  His parents showed him to everyone they met.  John Henry was the most powerful looking baby people had ever seen.  He had thick arms, wide shoulders and strong muscles.  John Henry started growing when he was one day old.  He continued growing until he was the strongest man who ever lived.
John Henry grew up in a world that did not let children stay children for long. One day, he was sitting on his father's knee.  The boy picked up a small piece of steel and a workman's tool, a hammer.  He looked at the two objects, then said, "A hammer will be the death of me."
Before John Henry was six years old, he was carrying stones for workers building a nearby railroad.  By the age of ten, he worked from early in the morning until night.  Often, he would stop and listen to the sould of a train far away.  He told his family, "I am going to be a steel-driver some day."
Steel-drivers helped create pathways for the railroad lines.  These laborers had the job of cutting holes in rock.  They did this by hitting thick steel drills, or spikes.
By the time John Henry was a young man, he was one of the best steel-drivers in the country.  He could work for hours without missing a beat.  People said he worked so fast that his hammer moved like lightening.
STORYTELLER:  John Henry was almost two meters tall.  He weighed more than ninety kilograms.  He had a beautiful deep voice, and played an instrument called a banjo.  John Henry married another steel-driver, a woman named Polly Ann. They had a son.
John Henry went to work as a steel-driver for the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad, or C-and-O.  The company asked him to lead workers on a project to extend the railroad into the Allegheny Mountains. The workers made good progress on the project until they started working near Big Bend Mountain in West Virginia.
The company's owners said the mountain was too big to build a railroad around it.  So the workers were told they had to force their drills through it.  This meant creating a tunnel more than one-and-one half kilometers long.
The project required about one thousand laborers and lasted three years.  Pay was low and the work was difficult.  The workers had to breathe thick black smoke and dust.  Hundreds of men became sick.  Many died.
John Henry was the strongest and fastest man involved in the project.  He used a hammer that weighed more than six kilograms. Some people say he was able to cut a path of three to six meters a day.
That July was the hottest month ever in West Virginia. Many workers became tired and weak in the heat.  John Henry was concerned his friends might lose their jobs.  So, he picked up their hammers and began doing their work.
One week, he did his own work and that of several other steel-drivers.  He worked day and night, rarely stopping to eat.  The men thanked John Henry for his help.  He just smiled and said, "A man ain't nothing but a man. He has just got to do his best."
The extreme heat continued for weeks.  One day, a salesman came to the work area with a new drilling machine powered by steam.  He said it could drill holes faster than twelve men working together.  The railroad company planned to buy the machine if it worked as well as the salesman said.
The supervisor of the workers dismissed the salesman's claims. He said, "I have the best steel-driver in the country.  His name is John Henry, and he can beat more than twenty men working together."  The salesman disputed the statements.  He said the company could have the machine without cost if John Henry was faster.
The supervisor called to John Henry.  He said, "This man does not believe that you can drill faster.  How about a race?'
John Henry looked at the machine and saw images of the future.  He saw machines taking the place of America's best laborers.  He saw himself and his friends unemployed and standing by a road, asking for food.  He saw men losing their families and their rights as human beings.
John Henry told the supervisor he would never let the machine take his job.  His friends all cheered.  However, John Henry's wife Polly Ann was not happy.
"Competing against the machine will be the death of you," she said.  "You have a wife and a child.  If anything happens to you, we will not ever smile again."
John Henry lifted his son into the air.  He told his wife, "A man ain't nothing but a man.  But, a man always has to do his best.  Tomorrow, I will take my hammer and drive that steel faster than any machine."
STORYTELLER:  On the day of the big event, many people came to Big Bend Mountain to watch. John Henry and the salesman stood side by side.  Even early in the day, the sun was burning hot.
The competition began.  John Henry kissed his hammer and started working.  At first, the steam-powered drill worked two times faster than he did.  Then, he started working with a hammer in each hand.  He worked faster and faster.  In the mountain, the heat and dust were so thick that most men would have had trouble breathing.  The crowd shouted as clouds of dust came from inside the mountain.
The salesman was afraid when he heard what sounded like the mountain breaking. However, it was only the sound of John Henry at work.
Polly Ann and her son cheered when the machine was pulled from the tunnel.  It had broken down.  Polly Ann urged John Henry to come out.  But he kept working, faster and faster.  He dug deep into the darkness, hitting the steel so hard that his body began to fail him.  He became weak, and his heart burst.
John Henry fell to the ground.  There was a terrible silence. Polly Ann did not move because she knew what happened.  John Henry's blood spilled over the ground. But he still held one of the hammers.
"I beat them," he said.  His wife cried out, "Don't go, John Henry." "Bring me a cool drink of water," he said.  Then he took his last breath.
Friends carried his body from the mountain. They buried him near the house where he was born. Crowds went there after they heard about John Henry's death.
Soon, the steam drill and other machines replaced the steel-drivers.  Many laborers left their families, looking for work. They took the only jobs they could find. As they worked, some sang about John Henry.
Many years ago, Paul Bunyan was born in the northeastern American state of Maine.  His mother and father were shocked when they first saw the boy.  Paul was so large at birth that five large birds had to carry him to his parents.  When the boy was only a few weeks old, he weighed more than forty-five kilograms.
As a child, Paul was always hungry.  His parents needed ten cows to supply milk for his meals.  Before long, he ate fifty eggs and ten containers of potatoes every day.
Young Paul grew so big that his parents did not know what to do with him.  Once, Paul rolled over so much in his sleep that he caused an earthquake. This angered people in the town where his parents lived.  So, the government told his mother and father they would have to move him somewhere else.
Paul's father built a wooden cradle -- a traditional bed for a baby.  His parents put the cradle in waters along the coast of Maine.  However, every time Paul rolled over, huge waves covered all the coastal towns.  So his parents brought their son back on land.  They took him into the woods.  This is where he grew up.
As a boy, Paul helped his father cut down trees.  Paul had the strength of many men.  He also was extremely fast.  He could turn off a light and then jump into his bed before the room got dark.
STORYTELLER:  Maine is very cold for much of the year. One day, it started to snow.  The snow covered Paul's home and a nearby forest.  However, this snow was very unusual.  It was blue.  The blue snow kept falling until the forest was covered.
Paul put on his snowshoes and went out to see the unusual sight.  As he walked, Paul discovered an animal stuck in the snow.  It was a baby ox.  Paul decided to take the ox home with him.  He put the animal near the fireplace.  After the ox got warmer, his hair remained blue.
Paul decided to keep the blue ox and named him Babe.  Babe grew very quickly.  One night, Paul left him in a small building with the other animals.  The next morning, the barn was gone and so was Babe.  Paul searched everywhere for the animal.  He found Babe calmly eating grass in a valley, with the barn still on top of his back. Babe followed Paul and grew larger every day.  Every time Paul looked, Babe seemed to grow taller.
In those days, much of North America was filled with thick, green forests.  Paul Bunyan could clear large wooded areas with a single stroke of his large, sharp axe.
Paul taught Babe to help with his work.  Babe was very useful.  For example, Paul had trouble removing trees along a road that was not straight.  He decided to tie one end of the road to what remained of a tree in the ground.  Paul tied the other end to Babe.  Babe dug his feet in the ground and pulled with all his strength until the road became straight.
STORYTELLER:  In time, Paul and Babe the Blue Ox left Maine, and moved west to look for work in other forests.  Along the way, Paul dug out the Great Lakes to provide drinking water for Babe.  They settled in a camp near the Onion River in the state of Minnesota.
Paul's camp was the largest in the country. The camp was so large that a man had to have one week's supply of food when walking from one side of the camp to the other.
Paul decided to get other lumberjacks to help with the work.  His work crew became known as the Seven Axemen.  Each man was more than two meters tall and weighed more than one-hundred-sixty kilograms.  All of the Axemen were named Elmer.  That way, they all came running whenever Paul called them.
The man who cooked for the group was named Sourdough Sam.  He made everything -- except coffee -- from sourdough, a substance used in making sourdough bread.
Every Sunday, Paul and his crew ate hot cakes.  Each hot cake was so large that it took five men to eat one.  Paul usually had ten or more hot cakes, depending on how hungry he was.  The table where the men ate was so long that a server usually drove to one end of the table and stayed the night.  The server drove back in the morning, with a fresh load of food.
Paul needed someone to help with the camp's finances.  He gave the job to a man named Johnny Inkslinger.  Johnny kept records of everything, including wages and the cost of feeding Babe.  He sometimes used nine containers of writing fluid a day to keep such detailed records.
The camp also was home to Sport, the Reversible Dog.  One of the workers accidentally cut Sport in two.  The man hurried to put the dog back together, but made a mistake.  He bent the animal's back the wrong way.  However, that was not a problem for Sport.  He learned to run on his front legs until he was tired.  Then, he turned the other way and ran on his back legs.
STORYTELLER:  Big mosquitoes were a problem at the camp.  The men attacked the insects with their axes and long sticks. Before long, the men put barriers around their living space.  Then, Paul ordered them to get big bees to destroy the mosquitoes.  But the bees married the mosquitoes, and the problem got worse.  They began to produce young insects.  One day, the insects' love of sweets caused them to attack a ship that was bringing sugar to the camp.  At last, the mosquitoes and bees were defeated.  They ate so much sugar they could not move.
Paul always gave Babe the Blue Ox a thirty-five kilogram piece of sugar when he was good.  But sometimes Babe liked to play tricks.  At night, Babe would make noises and hit the ground with his feet.  The men at the camp would run out of the buildings where they slept, thinking it was an earthquake.
When winter came, Babe had trouble finding enough food to eat.  Snow covered everything.  Ole the Blacksmith solved the problem.  He made huge green sunglasses for Babe.  When Babe wore the sunglasses, he thought the snow was grass.  Before long, Babe was strong and healthy again.
One year, Paul's camp was especially cold.  It was so cold that the men let their facial hair grow very long.  When the men spoke, their words froze in the air.  Everything they said remained frozen all winter long, and did not melt until spring.
Paul Bunyan and Babe left their mark on many areas.  Some people say they were responsible for creating Puget Sound in the western state of Washington.  Others say Paul Bunyan and Babe cleared the trees from the states of North Dakota and South Dakota.  They prepared this area for farming.
Babe the Blue Ox died in South Dakota.  One story says he ate too many hot cakes.  Paul buried his old friend there.  Today, the burial place is known as the Black Hills.
Whatever happened to Paul Bunyan?  There are lots of stories.  Some people say he was last seen in Alaska, or even the Arctic Circle.  Another tradition says he still returns to Minnesota every summer.  It says Paul moves in and out of the woods, so few people ever know that he is there.
Pecos Bill had one of the strangest childhoods a boy ever had. It all started after his father decided that there was no longer enough room in east Texas for his family.
"Pack up, Ma!" he cried.  "Neighbors movin' in fifty miles away! It's getting' too crowded!"
So they loaded up a wagon with all their things. Now some say they had fifteen children while others say eighteen. However many there were, the children were louder than thunder.  And as they set off across the wild country of west Texas, their mother and father could hardly hear a thing.
Now, as they came to the Pecos River, the wagon hit a big rock. The force threw little Bill out of the wagon and he landed on the sandy ground. Mother did not know Bill was gone until she gathered the children for the midday meal. Mother set off with some of the children to look for Bill, but they could find no sign of him.
Well, some people say Bill was just a baby when his family lost him.  Others say he was four years old.  But all agree that a group of animals called coyotes found Bill and raised him. Bill did all the things those animals did, like chase lizards and howl at the moon.  He became as good a coyote as any.
Now, Bill spent seventeen years living like a coyote until one day a cowboy rode by on his horse. Some say the cowboy was one of Bill's brothers. Whoever he was, he took one look at Bill and asked, "What are you?"
Bill was not used to human language. At first, he could not say anything. The cowboy repeated his question. This time, Bill said, "varmint."
That is a word used for any kind of wild animal.
"No you aren't," said the cowboy.
"Yes, I am," said Bill. "I have fleas."
"Lots of people have fleas," said the cowboy.  "You don't have a tail."
"Yes, I do," said Bill.
"Show it to me then," the cowboy said.
Bill looked at his backside and realized that he did not have a tail like the other coyotes. "Well, what am I then?" asked Bill.
"You're a cowboy! So start acting like one!" the cowboy cried out. Well that was all Bill needed to hear. He said goodbye to his coyote friends and left to join the world of humans.
Now, Pecos Bill was a good cowboy. Still, he hungered for adventure. One day he heard about a rough group of men. There is some debate over what the group was called.  But one storyteller calls it the "Hell's Gate Gang."
So Bill set out across the rough country to find this gang of men. Well, Bill's horse soon was injured so Bill had to carry it for a hundred miles. Then Bill met a rattlesnake fifty feet long. The snake made a hissing noise and was not about to let Bill pass. But after a tense minute, Bill beat the snake until it surrendered. He felt sorry for the varmint, though, and wrapped it around his arm.
After Bill walked another hundred miles, he came across an angry mountain lion. There was a huge battle, but Bill took control of the big cat and put his saddle on it. He rode that mountain lion all the way to the camp of the Hell's Gate Gang.
Now, when Bill saw the gang he shouted out, "Who's the boss around here?"
A huge cowboy, nine feet tall, took one look at Bill and said in a shaky voice, "I was the boss.  But you are the boss from here on in."
With his gang, Pecos Bill was able to create the biggest ranch in the Southwest. Bill and his men had so many cattle that they needed all of New Mexico to hold them. Arizona was the pasture where the cattle ate grass.
Pecos Bill invented the art of being a cowboy.  He invented the skill of throwing a special rope called a lasso over a cow's head to catch wandering cattle.
Some say he used a rattlesnake for a lasso.  Others say he made a lasso so big that it circled the whole Earth.
Bill invented the method of using a hot branding iron to permanently put the mark of a ranch on a cow's skin. That helped stop people from stealing cattle. Some say he invented cowboy songs to help calm the cattle and make the cowboy's life easier. But he is also said to have invented tarantulas and scorpions as jokes. Cowboys have had trouble with those poisonous creatures ever since.
Now, Pecos Bill could ride anything that ever was. So, as some tell the story, there came a storm bigger than any other. It all happened during the worst drought the West had ever seen. It was so dry that horses and cows started to dry up and blow away in the wind. So when Bill saw the windstorm, he got an idea. The huge tornado kicked across the land like a wild bronco. But Bill jumped on it without a thought.
He rode that tornado across Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, all the time squeezing the rain out of it to save the land from drought. When the storm was over, Bill fell off the tornado. He landed in California. He left a hole so deep that to this day it is known as Death Valley.
Now, Bill had a horse named Widow Maker. He got that name because any man who rode that horse would be thrown off and killed and his wife would become a widow. No one could ride that horse but Bill.
And Widow Maker, in the end, caused the biggest problem for Pecos Bill. You see, one day Bill saw a woman. Not just any woman, but a wild, red- haired woman, riding a giant catfish down the Rio Grande River.
Her name was Slue-foot Sue. And Bill fell in love with her at first sight. Well, Bill would not rest until he had asked for her hand in marriage. And Slue-foot Sue accepted.
On their wedding day, Pecos Bill dressed in his best buckskin suit. And Sue wore a beautiful white dress with a huge steel-spring bustle in the back. It was the kind of big dress that many women wore in those days — the bigger the better.
Now, after the marriage ceremony Slue-foot Sue got a really bad idea. She decided that she wanted to ride Widow Maker.  Bill begged her not to try. But she had her mind made up.
Well, the second she jumped on the horse's back he began to kick and buck like nothing anyone had ever seen. He sent Sue flying so high that she sailed clear over the new moon.