four merchants, get his orders; and when the whistle blew, he would 
dash down the street again lickety-split and swing onto the train 
while it was moving. 
Within two years, he had taken an unproductive territory that had 
stood in the twenty-fifth place and had boosted it to first place 
among all the twenty-nine car routes leading out of south Omaha. 
Armour and Company offered to promote him, saying: "You have 
achieved what seemed impossible." But he refused the promotion 
and resigned, went to New York, studied at the American Academy 
of Dramatic Arts, and toured the country, playing the role of Dr. 
Hartley in Polly of the Circus. 
He would never be a Booth or a Barrymore. He had the good sense 
to recognize that, So back he went to sales work, selling automobiles 
and trucks for the Packard Motor Car Company. 
He knew nothing about machinery and cared nothing about it. 
Dreadfully unhappy, he had to scourge himself to his task each day. 
He longed to have time to study, to write the books he had dreamed 
about writing back in college. So he resigned. He was going to spend 
his days writing stories and novelsand support himself by teaching 
in a night school. 
Teaching what? As he looked back and evaluated his college work, 
he saw that his training in public speaking had done more to give 
him confidence, courage, poise and the ability to meet and deal with 
people in business than had all the rest of his college courses put 
together, So he urged the Y.M.C.A. schools in New York to give him 
a chance to conduct courses in public speaking for people in 
business. 
What? Make orators out of business people? Absurd. The Y.M.C.A. 
people knew. They had tried suchcourses -and they had always 
failed. When they refused to pay him a salary of two dollars a night, 
he agreed to teach on a commission basis and take a percentage of 
the net profits -if there were any profits to take. And inside of three 
years they were paying him thirty dollars a night on that basis - 
instead of two. 
The course grew. Other "Ys" heard of it, then other cities. Dale 
Carnegie soon became a glorified circuit rider covering New York, 
Philadelphia, Baltimore and later London and Paris. All the textbooks 
were too academic and impractical for the business people who 
flocked to his courses. Because of this he wrote his own book 
entitled Public Speaking and Influencing Men in Business. It became 
the official text of all the Y.M.C.A.s as well as of the American 
Bankers' Association and the National Credit Men's Association. 
Dale Carnegie claimed that all people can talk when they get mad. 
He said that if you hit the most ignorant man in town on the jaw and 
knock him down, he would get on his feet and talk with an 
eloquence, heat and emphasis that would have rivaled that world 
famous orator William Jennings Bryan at the height of his career. He 
claimed that almost any person can speak acceptably in public if he 
or she has self-confidence and an idea that is boiling and stewing 
within. 
The way to develop self-confidence, he said, is to do the thing you 
fear to do and get a record of successful experiences behind you. So 
he forced each class member to talk at every session of the course. 
The audience is sympathetic. They are all in the same boat; and, by 
constant practice, they develop a courage, confidence and 
enthusiasm that carry over into their private speaking. 
Dale Carnegie would tell you that he made a living all these years, 
not by teaching public speaking - that was incidental. His main job 
was to help people conquer their fears and develop courage. 
He started out at first to conduct merely a course in public speaking, 
but the students who came were business men and women. Many of 
them hadn't seen the inside of a classroom in thirty years. Most of 
them were paying their tuition on the installment plan. They wanted 
results and they wanted them quick - results that they could use the 
next day in business interviews and in speaking before groups. 
So he was forced to be swift and practical. Consequently, he 
developed a system of training thatis unique - a striking combination 
of public speaking, salesmanship, human relations and applied 
psychology. 
A slave to no hard-and-fast rules, he developed a course that is as 
real as the measles and twice as much fun. 
When the classes terminated, the graduates formed clubs of their 
own and continued to meet fortnightly for years afterward. One 
group of nineteen in Philadelphia met twice a month during the 
winter season for seventeen years. Class members frequently travel 
fifty or a hundred miles to attend classes. One student used to 
commute each week from Chicago to New York. Professor William 
James of Harvard used to say that the average person develops only 
10 percent of his latent mental ability. Dale Carnegie, by helping 
business men and women to develop their latent possibilities, 
created one of the most significant movements in adult education
succession, it would have taken ten months, listening day and night, 
to hear them all. 
Dale Carnegie's own career, filled with sharp contrasts, was a striking 
example of what a person can accomplish when obsessed with an 
original idea and afire with enthusiasm. 
Born on a Missouri farm ten miles from a railway, he never saw a 
streetcar until he was twelve years old; yet by the time he was fortysix, he was familiar with the far-flung corners of the earth, 
everywhere from Hong Kong to Hammerfest; and, at one time, he 
approached closer to the North Pole than Admiral Byrd's 
headquarters at Little America was to the South Pole. 
This Missouri lad who had once picked strawberries and cut 
cockleburs for five cents an hour became the highly paid trainer of 
the executives of large corporationsin the art of self-expression. 
This erstwhile cowboy who had once punched cattle and branded 
calves and ridden fences out in western South Dakota later went to 
London to put on shows under the patronage of the royal family. 
This chap who was a total failure the first half-dozen times he tried 
to speak in public later became my personal manager. Much of my 
success has been due to training under Dale Carnegie. 
Young Carnegie had to struggle for an education, for hard luck was 
always battering away at the old farm in northwest Missouri with a 
flying tackle and a body slam. Year after year, the "102" River rose 
and drowned the corn and swept awaythe hay. Season after season, 
the fat hogs sickened and died from cholera, the bottom fell out of 
the market for cattle and mules,and the bank threatened to 
foreclose the mortgage. 
Sick with discouragement, the family sold out and bought another 
farm near the State Teachers' College at Warrensburg, Missouri. 
Board and room could be had in town for a dollar a day, but young 
Carnegie couldn't afford it. So he stayed on the farm and commuted 
on horseback three miles to college each day. At home, he milked 
the cows, cut the wood, fed the hogs, and studied his Latin verbs by 
the light of a coal-oil lamp until his eyes blurred and he began to 
nod. 
Even when he got to bed at midnight, he set the alarm for three 
o'clock. His father bred pedigreed Duroc-Jersey hogs - and there was 
danger, during the bitter cold nights, that the young pigs would 
freeze to death; so they were put in a basket, covered with a gunny 
sack, and set behind the kitchen stove. True to their nature, the pigs 
demanded a hot meal at 3 A.M. So when the alarm went off, Dale 
Carnegie crawled out of the blankets, took the basket of pigs out to 
their mother, waited for them to nurse, and then brought them back 
to the warmth of the kitchen stove. 
There were six hundred students in State Teachers' College, and 
Dale Carnegie was one of the isolated half-dozen who couldn't afford 
to board in town. He was ashamed of the poverty that made it 
necessary for him to ride back to the farm and milk the cows every 
night. He was ashamed of his coat, which was too tight, and his 
trousers, which were too short. Rapidly developing an inferiority 
complex, he looked about for some shortcut to distinction. He soon 
saw that there were certain groups in college that enjoyed influence 
and prestige - the football and baseball players and the chaps who 
won the debating and public-speaking contests. 
Realizing that he had no flair for athletics, he decided to win one of 
the speaking contests. He spent months preparing his talks. He 
practiced as he sat in the saddle galloping to college and back; he 
practiced his speeches as he milkedthe cows; and then he mounted 
a bale of hay in the barn and with great gusto and gestures 
harangued the frightened pigeons about the issues of the day. 
But in spite of all his earnestness and preparation, he met with 
defeat after defeat. He was eighteen at the time - sensitive and 
proud. He became so discouraged,so depressed, that he even 
thought of suicide. And then suddenly he began to win, not one 
contest, but every speaking contest in college. 
Other students pleaded with him to train them; and they won also. 
After graduating from college, he started selling correspondence 
courses to the ranchers among the sand hills of western Nebraska 
and eastern Wyoming. In spite of all his boundless energy and 
enthusiasm, he couldn't make the grade. He became so discouraged 
that he went to his hotel room in Alliance, Nebraska, in the middle of 
the day, threw himself across the bed, and wept in despair. He 
longed to go back to college, he longed to retreat from the harsh 
battle of life; but he couldn't. So he resolved to go to Omaha and get 
another job. He didn't have the money for a railroad ticket, so he 
traveled on a freight train, feeding and watering two carloads of wild 
horses in return for his passage, After landing in south Omaha, he 
got a job selling bacon and soap and lard for Armour and Company. 
His territory was up among the Badlands and the cow and Indian 
country of western South Dakota. He covered his territory by freight 
train and stage coach and horseback and slept in pioneer hotels 
where the only partition between the rooms was a sheet of muslin. 
He studied books on salesmanship, rode bucking bronchos, played 
poker with the Indians, and learned how to collect money. And 
when, for example, an inland storekeeper couldn't pay cash for the 
bacon and hams he had ordered, Dale Carnegie would take a dozen 
pairs of shoes off his shelf, sell the shoes to the railroad men, and 
forward the receipts to Armour and Company. 
He would often ride a freight train a hundred miles a day. When the 
train stopped to unload freight, he would dash uptown, see three or
gratification. 7. The well-being of our children. 8. A feeling of 
importance. 
Almost all these wants are usually gratified-all except one. But there 
is one longing - almost as deep, almost as imperious, as the desire 
for food or sleep - which is seldom gratified. It is what Freud calls 
"the desire to be great." It is what Dewey calls the "desire to be 
important." 
Lincoln once began a letter saying: "Everybody likes a compliment." 
William James said: "The deepest principle in human nature is the 
craving to be appreciated." He didn'tspeak, mind you, of the "wish" 
or the "desire" or the "longing" to be appreciated. He said the 
"craving" to be appreciated. 
Here is a gnawing and unfaltering human hunger, and the rare 
individual who honestly satisfies this heart hunger will hold people in 
the palm of his or her hand and "even the undertaker will be sorry 
when he dies." 
The desire for a feeling of importance is one of the chief 
distinguishing differences between mankind and the animals. To 
illustrate: When I was a farm boy out in Missouri, my father bred fine 
Duroc-Jersey hogs and . pedigreed white - faced cattle. We used to 
exhibit our hogs and white-faced cattle at the country fairs and livestock shows throughout the Middle West. We won first prizes by the 
score. My father pinned his blue ribbons on a sheet of white muslin, 
and when friends or visitors came to the house, he would get out the 
long sheet of muslin. He would hold one end and I would hold the 
other while he exhibited the blue ribbons. 
The hogs didn't care about the ribbons they had won. But Father did. 
These prizes gave him a feeling of importance. 
If our ancestors hadn't had this flaming urge for a feeling of 
importance, civilization would have been impossible. Without it, we 
should have been just about like animals. 
It was this desire for a feeling of importance that led an uneducated, 
poverty-stricken grocery clerk to study some law books he found in 
the bottom of a barrel of household plunder that he had bought for 
fifty cents. You have probably heard of this grocery clerk. His name 
was Lincoln. 
It was this desire for a feeling of importance that inspired Dickens to 
write his immortal novels. This desireinspired Sir Christoper Wren to 
design his symphonies in stone. This desire made Rockefeller amass 
millions that he never spent! And this same desire made the richest 
family in your town build a house far too large for its requirements. 
This desire makes you want to wear the latest styles, drive the latest 
cars, and talk about your brilliant children. 
It is this desire that lures many boys and girls into joining gangs and 
engaging in criminal activities. The average young criminal, 
according to E. P. Mulrooney, onetime police commissioner of New 
York, is filled with ego, and his first request after arrest is for those 
lurid newspapers that make him out a hero. The disagreeable 
prospect of serving time seems remote so long as he can gloat over 
his likeness sharing space with pictures of sports figures, movie and 
TV stars and politicians. 
If you tell me how you get your feeling of importance, I'll tell you 
what you are. That determines your character. That is the most 
significant thing about you. For example, John D. Rockefeller got his 
feeling of importance by giving money to erect a modern hospital in 
Peking, China, to care for millions of poor people whom he had never 
seen and never would see. Dillinger, on the other hand, got his 
feeling of importance by being a bandit, a bank robber and killer. 
When the FBI agents were hunting him, he dashed into a farmhouse 
up in Minnesota and said, "I'm Dillinger!" He was proud of the fact 
that he was Public Enemy Number  One. "I'm not going to hurt you, 
but I'm Dillinger!" he said   f you tell me how you get your feeling of importance, I'll tell you 
what you are. That determines your character. That is the most 
significant thing about you. For example, John D. Rockefeller got his 
feeling of importance by giving money to erect a modern hospital in 
Peking, China, to care for millions of poor people whom he had never 
seen and never would see. Dillinger, on the other hand, got his 
feeling of importance by being a bandit, a bank robber and killer. 
When the FBI agents were hunting him, he dashed into a farmhouse 
up in Minnesota and said, "I'm Dillinger!" He was proud of the fact 
that he was Public Enemy Number One. "I'm not going to hurt you, 
but I'm Dillinger!" he said. 
Yes, the one significant difference between Dillinger and Rockefeller 
is how they got their feeling of importance. 
History sparkles with amusing examples of famous people struggling 
for a feeling of importance. Even George Washington wanted to be 
called "His Mightiness, the President of the United States"; and 
Columbus pleaded for the title "Admiral of the Ocean and Viceroy of 
India." Catherine the Great refused to open letters that were not 
addressed to "Her Imperial Majesty"; and Mrs. Lincoln, in the White 
House, turned upon Mrs. Grant like a tigress and shouted, "How dare 
you be seated in my presence until I invite you!" 
Our millionaires helped finance Admiral Byrd's expedition to the 
Antarctic in 1928 with the understanding that ranges of icy 
mountains would be named after them; and Victor Hugo aspired to 
have nothing less than the city of Paris renamed in his honor. Even 
Shakespeare, mightiest of the mighty, tried to add luster to his name 
by procuring a coat of arms for his family. 
People sometimes became invalids in order to win sympathy and 
attention, and get a feeling of importance. For example, take Mrs. 
McKinley. She got a feeling of importance by forcing her husband, 
the President of the United States, to neglect important affairs of 
state while he reclined on the bed beside her for hours at a time, his 
arm about her, soothing her to sleep. She fed her gnawing desire for 
attention by insisting that he remain with her while she was having 
her teeth fixed, and once created a stormy scene when he had to 
leave her alone with the dentist while he kept an appointment with 
John Hay, his secretary of state. 
The writer Mary Roberts Rinehart once told me of a bright, vigorous 
young woman who became an invalid in order to get a feeling of 
importance. "One day," said Mrs. Rinehart, "this woman had been 
obliged to face something, her age perhaps. The lonely years were 
stretching ahead and there was little left for her to anticipate. 
"She took to her bed; and for ten years her old mother traveled to 
the third floor and back, carrying trays, nursing her. Then one day 
the old mother, weary with service, lay down and died. For some 
weeks, the invalid languished; thenshe got up, put on her clothing, 
and resumed living again." 
Some authorities declare that peoplemay actually go insane in order 
to find, in the dreamland of insanity, the feeling of importance that 
has been denied them in the harsh world of reality. There are more 
patients suffering from mental diseases in the United States than 
from all other diseases combined. 
What is the cause of insanity? 
Nobody can answer such a sweeping question, but we know that 
certain diseases, such as syphilis, break down and destroy the brain 
cells and result in insanity. In fact, about one-half of all mental 
diseases can be attributed to such physical causes as brain lesions, 
alcohol, toxins and injuries. But the other half - and this is the 
appalling part of the story - the other half of the people who go 
insane apparently have nothing organically wrong with their brain 
cells. In post-mortem examinations, when their brain tissues are 
studied under the highest-powered microscopes, these tissues are 
found to be apparently just as healthy as yours and mine. 
Why do these people go insane? 
I put that question to the head physician of one of our most 
important psychiatric hospitals. This doctor, who has received the 
highest honors and the most coveted awards for his knowledge of 
this subject, told me frankly that he didn't know why people went 
insane. Nobody knows for sure But he did say that many people who 
go insane find in insanity a feeling of importance that they were 
unable to achieve in the world of reality. Then he told me this story: 
"I have a patient right now whose marriage proved to be a tragedy. 
She wanted love, sexual gratification, children and social prestige, 
but life blasted all her hopes. Her husband didn't love her. He 
refused even to eat with her and forced her to serve his meals in his 
room upstairs. She had no children, no social standing. She went 
insane; and, in her imagination, she divorced her husband and 
resumed her maiden name. She now believes she has married into 
English aristocracy, and she insists on being called Lady Smith. 
"And as for children, she imaginesnow that she has had a new child 
every night. Each time I call on her she says: 'Doctor, I had a baby 
last night.' " 
Life once wrecked all her dream ships on the sharp rocks of reality; 
but in the sunny, fantasy isles of insanity, all her barkentines race 
into port with canvas billowing and winds singing through the masts. 
" Tragic? Oh, I don't know. Her physician said to me: If I could 
stretch out my hand and restore her sanity, I wouldn't do it. She's 
much happier as she is." 
If some people are so hungry for a feeling of importance that they 
actually go insane to get it, imagine what miracle you and I can 
achieve by giving people honest appreciation this side of insanity. 
One of the first people in American business to be paid a salary of 
over a million dollars a year (when there was no income tax and a 
person earning fifty dollars a week was considered well off) was 
Charles Schwab, He had been pickedby Andrew Carnegie to become 
the first president of the newly formed United States Steel Company 
in 1921, when Schwab was only thirty-eight years old. (Schwab later 
left U.S. Steel to take over the then-troubled Bethlehem Steel 
Company, and he rebuilt it into one of the most profitable companies 
in America.) 
Why did Andrew Carnegie pay a million dollars a year, or more than 
three thousand dollars a day, to Charles Schwab? Why? Because 
Schwab was a genius? No. Because he knew more about the 
manufacture of steel than other people? Nonsense. Charles Schwab 
told me himself that he had many men working for him who knew 
more about the manufacture of steel than he did. 
Schwab says that he was paid this salary largely because of his 
ability to deal with people. I asked him how he did it. Here is his 
secret set down in his own words - words that ought to be cast in 
eternal bronze and hung in every home and school, every shop and 
office in the land - words that children ought to memorize instead of 
wasting their time memorizing the conjugation of Latin verbs or the 
amount of the annual rainfall in Brazil - words that will all but 
transform your life and mine if we will only live them: 
"I consider my ability to arouse enthusiasm among my people," said 
Schwab, "the greatest asset I possess, and the way to develop the 
best that is in a person is by appreciation and encouragement. 
"There is nothing else that so kills the ambitions of a person as 
criticisms from superiors. I never criticize any-one. I believe in giving 
a person incentive to work. So I am anxious to praise but loath to 
find fault. If I like anything, I am hearty in my approbation and lavish 
in my praise. " 
That is what Schwab did. But what do average people do? The exact 
opposite. If they don't like a thing,they bawl out their subordinates; 
if they do like it, they say nothing. As the old couplet says: "Once I 
did bad and that I heard ever/Twice I did good, but that I heard 
never." 
"In my wide association in life, meeting with many and great people 
in various parts of the world," Schwab declared, "I have yet to find 
the person, however great or exalted his station, who did not do 
better work and put forth greater effort under a spirit of approval 
than he would ever do under a spirit of criticism." 
That he said, frankly, was one of the outstanding reasons for the 
phenomenal success of Andrew Carnegie. Carnegie praised his 
associates publicly as well as pr-vately. 
Carnegie wanted to praise his assistants even on his tombstone. He 
wrote an epitaph for himself which read: "Here lies one who knew 
how to get around him men who were cleverer than himself:" 
Sincere appreciation was one of the secrets of the first John D. 
Rockefeller's success in handling men.For example, when one of his 
partners, Edward T. Bedford, lost a million dollars for the firm by a 
bad buy in South America, John D. might have criticized; but he 
knew Bedford had done his best - and the incident was closed. So 
Rockefeller found something to praise; he congratulated Bedford 
because he had been able to save 60 percent of the money he had 
invested. "That's splendid," said Rockefeller. "We don't always do as 
well as that upstairs." 
I have among my clippings a story that I know never happened, but 
it illustrates a truth, so I'll repeat it: 
According to this silly story, a farm woman, at the end of a heavy 
day's work, set before her menfolks a heaping pile of hay. And when 
they indignantly demanded whether she had gone crazy, she replied: 
"Why, how did I know you'd notice? I've been cooking for you men 
for the last twenty years and in all that time I ain't heard no word to 
let me know you wasn't just eating hay." 
When a study was made a few years ago on runaway wives, what do 
you think was discovered to be the main reason wives ran away? It 
was "lack of appreciation." And I'd bet that a similar study made of 
runaway husbands would come out the same way. We often take our 
spouses so much for granted that we never let them know we 
appreciate them. 
A member of one of our classes told of a request made by his wife. 
She and a group of other women in her church were involved in a 
self-improvement program. She asked her husband to help her by 
listing six things he believed she could do to help her become a 
better wife. He reported to the class: "I was surprised by such a 
request. Frankly, it would have been easy for me to list six things I 
would like to change about her - myheavens, she could have listed a 
thousand things she would like to change about me - but I didn't. I 
said to her, 'Let me think about it and give you an answer in the 
morning.' 
"The next morning I got up very early and called the florist and had 
them send six red roses to my wife with a note saying: 'I can't think 
of six things I would like to change about you. I love you the way 
you are.' 
"When I arrived at home that evening, who do you think greeted me 
at the door: That's right. My wife! She was almost in tears. Needless 
to say, I was extremely glad I had not criticized her as she had 
requested. 
"The following Sunday at church, after she had reported the results 
of her assignment, several women with whom she had been studying 
came up to me and said, 'That was the most considerate thing I 
have ever heard.' It was then I realized the power of appreciation." 
Florenz Ziegfeld, the most spectacular producer who ever dazzled 
Broadway, gained his reputation by his subtle ability to "glorify the 
American girl." Time after time, he took drab little creatures that no 
one ever looked at twice and transformed them on the stage into 
glamorous visions of mystery and seduction. Knowing the value of 
appreciation and confidence, he made women feel beautiful by the 
sheer power of his gallantry and consideration. He was practical: he 
raised the salary of chorus girls from thirty dollars a week to as high 
as one hundred and seventy-five. And he was also chivalrous; on 
opening night at the Follies, he sent telegrams to the stars in the 
cast, and he deluged every chorus girl in the show with American 
Beauty roses. 
I once succumbed to the fad of fasting and went for six days and 
nights without eating. It wasn't difficult. I was less hungry at the end 
of the sixth day than I was at the end of the second. Yet I know, as 
you know, people who would think they had committed a crime if 
they let their families or employees go for six days without food; but 
they will let them go for six days, and six weeks, and sometimes 
sixty years without giving them the hearty appreciation that they 
crave almost as much as they crave food. 
When Alfred Lunt, one of the great actors of his time, played the 
leading role in Reunion in Vienna, he said, "There is nothing I need 
so much as nourishment for my self-esteem." 
We nourish the bodies of our children and friends and employees, 
but how seldom do we nourish their selfesteem? We provide them 
with roast beef and potatoes to build energy, but we neglect to give 
them kind words of appreciation that would sing in their memories 
for years like the music of the morning stars. 
Paul Harvey, in one of his radio broadcasts, "The Rest of the Story," 
told how showing sincere appreciation can change a person's life. He 
reported that years ago a teacher in Detroit asked Stevie Morris to 
help her find a mouse that was lost in the classroom. You see, she 
appreciated the fact that nature had given Stevie something no one 
else in the room had. Nature had given Stevie a remarkable pair of 
ears to compensate for his blind eyes. But this was really the first 
time Stevie had been shown appreciation for those talented ears. 
Now, years later, he says that this act of appreciation was the 
beginning of a new life. You see, from that time on he developed his 
gift of hearing and went on to become, under the stage name of 
Stevie Wonder, one of the great pop singers and and songwriters of 
the seventies.*
