During the first thirty-five years of the twentieth century, the 
publishing houses of America printed more than a fifth of a million 
different books. Most of them were deadly dull, and many were 
financial failures. "Many," did I say? The president of one of the 
largest publishing houses in the world confessed to me that his 
company, after seventy-five years of publishing experience, still lost money on seven out of every eight books it published. 
Why, then, did I have the temerity to write another book? And, after 
I had written it, why should you bother to read it? 
Fair questions, both; and I'll try to answer them. 
I have, since 1912, been conductingeducational courses for business 
and professional men and women in New York. At first, I conducted 
courses in public speaking only - courses designed to train adults, by 
actual experience, to think on their feet and express their ideas with 
more clarity, more effectiveness and more poise, both in business 
interviews and before groups. 
But gradually, as the seasons passed, I realized that as sorely as 
these adults needed training in effective speaking, they needed still 
more training in the fine art of getting along with people in everyday 
business and social contacts. 
I also gradually realized that I was sorely in need of such training 
myself. As I look back across the years, I am appalled at my own 
frequent lack of finesse and understanding. How I wish a book such 
as this had been placed in my hands twenty years ago! What a 
priceless boon it would have been. 
Dealing with people is probablythe biggest problem you face, 
especially if you are in business. Yes, and that is also true if you are 
a housewife, architect or engineer. Research done a few years ago 
under the auspices of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement 
of Teaching uncovered a most important and significant fact - a fact 
later confirmed by additional studies made at the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. These investigationsrevealed that even in such 
technical lines as engineering, about 15 percent of one's financial 
success is due to one's technical knowledge and about 85 percent is 
due to skill in human engineering-to personality and the ability to 
lead people. 
For many years, I conducted courses each season at the Engineers' 
Club of Philadelphia, and also courses for the New York Chapter of 
the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. A total of probably 
more than fifteen hundred engineers have passed through my 
classes. They came to me because they had finally realized, after 
years of observation and experience, that the highest-paid personnel 
in engineering are frequently not those who know the most about 
engineering. One can for example, hire mere technical ability in 
engineering, accountancy, architecture or any other profession at 
nominal salaries. But the person who has technical knowledge plus 
the ability to express ideas, to assume leadership, and to arouse 
enthusiasm among people-that personis headed for higher earning 
power. 
In the heyday of his activity, John D. Rockefeller said that "the ability 
to deal with people is as purchasable a commodity as sugar or 
coffee." "And I will pay more for that ability," said John D., "than for 
any other under the sun." 
Wouldn't you suppose that every college in the land would conduct 
courses to develop the highest-priced ability under the sun? But if 
there is just one practical, common-sense course of that kind given 
for adults in even one college in the land, it has escaped my 
attention up to the present writing. 
The University of Chicago and the United Y.M.C.A. Schools conducted 
a survey to determine what adults want to study. 
That survey cost $25,000 and took two years. The last part of the 
survey was made in Meriden, Connecticut. It had been chosen as a 
typical American town. Every adult in Meriden was interviewed and 
requested to answer 156 questions-questions such as "What is your 
business or profession? Your education? How do you spend your 
spare time? What is your income? Your hobbies? Your ambitions? 
Your problems? What subjects are you most interested in studying?" 
And so on. That survey revealed that health is the prime interest of 
adults and that their second interest is people; how to understand 
and get along with people; how to make people like you; and how to 
win others to your way of thinking. 
So the committee conducting this survey resolved to conduct such a 
course for adults in Meriden. Theysearched diligently for a practical 
textbook on the subject and found-not one. Finally they approached 
one of the world's outstanding authorities on adult education and 
asked him if he knew of any book that met the needs of this group. 
"No," he replied, "I know what those adults want. But the book they 
need has never been written." 
I knew from experience that this statement was true, for I myself 
had been searching for years to discover a practical, working 
handbook on human relations. 
Since no such book existed, I have tried to write one for use in my 
own courses. And here it is. I hope you like it. 
In preparation for this book, I read everything that I could find on 
the subject- everything from newspaper columns, magazine articles, 
records of the family courts, the writings of the old philosophers and 
the new psychologists. In addition, I hired a trained researcher to 
spend one and a half years in various libraries reading everything I 
had missed, plowing through erudite tomes on psychology, poring 
over hundreds of magazine articles, searching through countless 
biographies, trying to ascertain how the great leaders of all ages had 
dealt with people. We read their biographies, We read the life stories 
of all great leaders from Julius Caesar to Thomas Edison. I recall that 
we read over one hundred biographies of Theodore Roosevelt alone. 
We were determined to spare no time, no expense, to discover every 
practical idea that anyone had ever used throughout the ages for 
winning friends and influencing people. 
I personally interviewed scores ofsuccessful people, some of them 
world-famous-inventors like Marconi and Edison; political leaders like 
Franklin D. Roosevelt and James Farley; business leaders like Owen 
D. Young; movie stars like Clark Gable and Mary Pickford; and 
explorers like Martin Johnson-and tried to discover the techniques 
they used in human relations. 
From all this material, I prepared a short talk. I called it "How to Win 
Friends and Influence People." I say "short." It was short in the 
beginning, but it soon expanded to a lecture that consumed one 
hour and thirty minutes. For years, I gave this talk each season to 
the adults in the Carnegie Institute courses in New York. 
I gave the talk and urged the listenersto go out and test it in their 
business and social contacts, and then come back to class and speak 
about their experiences and the results they had achieved. What an 
interesting assignment! These men and women, hungry for selfimprovement, were fascinated by the idea of working in a new kind 
of laboratory - the first and only laboratory of human relationships 
for adults that had ever existed. 
This book wasn't written in the usual sense of the word. It grew as a 
child grows. It grew and developed out of that laboratory, out of the 
experiences of thousands of adults. 
Years ago, we started with a set of rules printed on a card no larger 
than a postcard. The next season we printed a larger card, then a 
leaflet, then a series of booklets, each one expanding in size and 
scope. After fifteen years of experiment and research came this 
book. 
The rules we have set down here are not mere theories or 
guesswork. They work like magic. Incredible as it sounds, I have 
seen the application of these principles literally revolutionize the lives 
of many people. 
To illustrate: A man with 314 employees joined one of these courses. 
For years, he had driven and criticized and condemned his 
employees without stint or discretion. Kindness, words of 
appreciation and encouragement were alien to his lips. After studying 
the principles discussed in this book, this employer sharply altered 
his philosophy of life. His organization is now inspired with a new 
loyalty, a new enthusiasm, a new spirit of team-work. Three hundred 
and fourteen enemies have been turned into 314 friends. As he 
proudly said in a speech before the class: "When I used to walk 
through my establishment, no one greeted me. My employees 
actually looked the other way when they saw me approaching. But 
now they are all my friends and even the janitor calls me by my first 
name." 
This employer gained more profit, more leisure and -what is infinitely 
more important-he found far more happiness in his business and in 
his home. 
Countless numbers of salespeople have sharply increased their sales 
by the use of these principles. Many have opened up new accounts - 
accounts that they had formerly solicited in vain. Executives have 
been given increased authority, increased pay. One executive 
reported a large increase in salary because he applied these truths. 
Another, an executive in the Philadelphia Gas Works Company, was 
slated for demotion when he was sixty-five because of his 
belligerence, because of his inability to lead people skillfully. This 
training not only saved him from the demotion but brought him a 
promotion with increased pay. 
On innumerable occasions, spouses attending the banquet given at 
the end of the course have told me that their homes have been 
much happier since their husbands or wives started this training. 
People are frequently astonished atthe new results they achieve. It 
all seems like magic. In some cases, in their enthusiasm, they have 
telephoned me at my home on Sundays because they couldn't wait 
forty-eight hours to report their achievements at the regular session 
of the course. 
One man was so stirred by a talk on these principles that he sat far 
into the night discussing them withother members of the class. At 
three o'clock in the morning, the others went home. But he was so 
shaken by a realization of his own mistakes, so inspired by the vista 
of a new and richer world opening before him, that he was unable to 
sleep. He didn't sleep that night or the next day or the next night. 
Who was he? A naive, untrained individual ready to gush over any 
new theory that came along? No, Far from it. He was a sophisticated, 
blas?dealer in art, very much the man about town, who spoke three 
languages fluently and was a graduate of two European universities. 
While writing this chapter, I received a letter from a German of the 
old school, an aristocrat whose forebears had served for generations 
as professional army officers underthe Hohenzollerns. His letter, 
written from a transatlantic steamer, telling about the application of 
these principles, rose almost to a religious fervor. 
Another man, an old New Yorker, a Harvard graduate, a wealthy 
man, the owner of a large carpet factory, declared he had learned 
more in fourteen weeks through this system of training about the 
fine art of influencing people than he had learned about the same 
subject during his four years in college. Absurd? Laughable? 
Fantastic? Of course, you are privileged to dismiss this statement 
with whatever adjective you wish. I am merely reporting, without 
comment, a declaration made by a conservative and eminently 
successful Harvard graduate in a public address to approximately six 
hundred people at the Yale Club in New York on the evening of 
Thursday, February 23, 1933. 
"Compared to what we ought to be," said the famous Professor 
William James of Harvard, "compared to what we ought to be, we 
are only half awake. We are making use of only a small part of our 
physical and mental resources. Stating the thing broadly, the human 
individual thus lives far within his limits. He possesses powers of 
various sorts which he habitually fails to use," 
Those powers which you "habitually fail to use"! The sole purpose of 
this book is to help you discover, develop and profit by those 
dormant and unused assets, 
"Education," said Dr. John G. Hibben, former president of Princeton 
University, "is the ability to meet life's situations," 
If by the time you have finished reading the first three chapters of 
this book- if you aren't then a little better equipped to meet life's 
situations, then I shall consider this book to be a total failure so far 
as you are concerned. For "the great aim of education," said Herbert 
Spencer, "is not knowledge but action." 
And this is an action book. 
DALE CA can use, draw a line beside it. If it is a four-star suggestion, then 
underscore every sentence or highlight it, or mark it with "****." 
Marking and underscoring a book makes it more interesting, and far 
easier to review rapidly. 
5. I knew a woman who had been office manager for a large 
insurance concern for fifteen years.Every month, she read all the 
insurance contracts her company had issued that month. Yes, she 
read many of the same contracts over month after month, year after 
year. Why? Because experience had taught her that that was the 
only way she could keep their provisions clearly in mind. I once spent 
almost two years writing a book on public speaking and yet I found I 
had to keep going back over it from time to time in order to 
remember what I had written in my own book. The rapidity with 
which we forget is astonishing. 
So, if you want to get a real, lasting benefit out of this book, don't 
imagine that skimming through it once will suffice. After reading it 
thoroughly, you ought to spend a few hours reviewing it every 
month, Keep it on your desk in front of you every day. Glance 
through it often. Keep constantly impressing yourself with the rich 
possibilities for improvement that still lie in the offing. Remember 
that the use of these principles can be made habitual only by a 
constant and vigorous campaign of review and application. There is 
no other way. 
6. Bernard Shaw once remarked: "If you teach a man anything, he 
will never learn." Shaw was right. Learning is an active process. We 
learn by doing. So, if you desire to master the principles you are 
studying in this book, do something about them. Apply these rules at 
every opportunity. If you don't you will forget them quickly. Only 
knowledge that is used sticks in your mind. 
You will probably find it difficult to apply these suggestions all the 
time. I know because I wrote the book, and yet frequently I found it 
difficult to apply everything I advocated. For example, when you are 
displeased, it is much easier to criticize and condemn than it is to try 
to understand the other person's viewpoint. It is frequently easier to 
find fault than to find praise. It is more natural to talk about what 
vou want than to talk about what the other person wants. And so on, 
So, as you read this book, rememberthat you are not merely trying 
to acquire information. You are attempting to form new habits. Ah 
yes, you are attempting a new way of life. That will require time and 
persistence and daily application. 
So refer to these pages often. Regard this as a working handbook on 
human relations; and whenever you are confronted with some 
specific problem - such as handling a child, winning your spouse to 
your way of thinking, or satisfying an irritated customer - hesitate 
about doing the natural thing, the impulsive thing. This is usually 
wrong. Instead, turn to these pages and review the paragraphs you 
have underscored. Then try these new ways and watch them achieve 
magic for you. 
7. Offer your spouse, your child or some business associate a dime 
or a dollar every time he or she catches you violating a certain 
principle. Make a lively game out of mastering these rules. 
8. The president of an important Wall Street bank once described, in 
a talk before one of my classes, a highly efficient system he used for 
self-improvement. This man had little formal schooling; yet he had 
become one of the most important financiers in America, and he 
confessed that he owed most of his success to the constant 
application of his homemade system. This is what he does, I'll put it 
in his own words as accurately as I can remember. 
"For years I have kept an engagement book showing all the 
appointments I had during the day. My family never made any plans 
for me on Saturday night, for the family knew that I devoted a part 
of each Saturday evening to the illuminating process of selfexamination and review and appraisal. After dinner I went off by 
myself, opened my engagement book, and thought over all the 
interviews, discussions and meetings that had taken place during the 
week. I asked myself: 
'What mistakes did I make that time?' 'What did I do that was rightand in what way could I have improved my performance?' 'What 
lessons can I learn from that experience?' 
"I often found that this weekly review made me very unhappy. I was 
frequently astonished at my own blunders. Of course, as the years 
passed, these blunders became less frequent. Sometimes I was 
inclined to pat myself on the back a little after one of these sessions. 
This system of self-analysis, self-education, continued year after 
year, did more for me than any other one thing I have ever 
attempted. 
"It helped me improve my ability to make decisions - and it aided me 
enormously in all my contacts with people. I cannot recommend it 
too highly." 
Why not use a similar system to check up on your application of the 
principles discussed in this book? If you do, two things will result. 
First, you will find yourself engaged in an educational process that is 
both intriguing and priceless. 
Second, you will find that your ability to meet and deal with people 
will grow enormously. 
9. You will find at the end of this book several blank pages on which 
you should record your triumphs in the application of these 
principles. Be specific. Give names,dates, results. Keeping such a 
record will inspire you to greater efforts; and how fascinating these 
entries will be when you chance uponthem some evening years from 
now! 
In order to get the most out of this bookRNEGIE 1936
This biographical information about Dale Carnegie was written as an 
introduction to the original edition of How to Win Friends and 
Influence People. It is reprinted inthis edition to give the readers 
additional background on Dale Carnegie. 
It was a cold January night in 1935, but the weather couldn't keep 
them away. Two thousand five hundred men and women thronged 
into the grand ballroom of the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York. Every 
available seat was filled by half-past seven. At eight o'clock, the 
eager crowd was still pouring in. The spacious balcony was soon 
jammed. Presently even standing space was at a premium, and 
hundreds of people, tired after navigating a day in business, stood 
up for an hour and a half that night to witness - what? 
A fashion show? 
A six-day bicycle race or a personal appearance by Clark Gable? 
No. These people had been lured there by a newspaper ad. Two 
evenings previously, they had seen this full-page announcement in 
the New York Sun staring them in the face: 
Learn to Speak Effectively Prepare for Leadership 
Old stuff? Yes, but believe it or not, in the most sophisticated town 
on earth, during a depression with 20 percent of the population on 
relief, twenty-five hundred people had left their homes and hustled 
to the hotel in response to that ad. 
The people who responded were of the upper economic strata - 
executives, employers and professionals. 
These men and women had come to hear the opening gun of an 
ultramodern, ultrapractical course in "Effective Speaking and 
Influencing Men in Business"- a course given by the Dale Carnegie 
Institute of Effective Speaking and Human Relations. 
Why were they there, these twenty-five hundred business men and 
women? 
Because of a sudden hunger for more education because of the 
depression? 
Apparently not, for this same course had been playing to packed 
houses in New York City every season for the preceding twenty-four 
years. During that time, more than fifteen thousand business and 
professional people had been trained by Dale Carnegie. Even large, 
skeptical, conservative organizations such as the Westinghouse 
Electric Company, the McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, the Brooklyn 
Union Gas Company, the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce, the 
American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the New York 
Telephone Company have had this training conducted in their own 
offices for the benefit of their members and executives. 
The fact that these people, ten ortwenty years after leaving grade 
school, high school or college, come and take this training is a 
glaring commentary on the shocking deficiencies of our educational 
system. 
What do adults really want to study? That is an important question; 
and in order to answer it, the University of Chicago, the American 
Association for Adult Education, and the United Y.M.C.A. Schools 
made a survey over a two-year period. 
That survey revealed that the prime interest of adults is health. It 
also revealed that their second interest is in developing skill in 
human relationships - they want to learn the technique of getting 
along with and influencing other people. They don't want to become 
public speakers, and they don't want to listen to a lot of high 
sounding talk about psychology; they want suggestions they can use 
immediately in business, in social contacts and in the home. 
So that was what adults wanted to study, was it? 
"All right," said the people making the survey. "Fine. If that is what 
they want, we'll give it to them." 
Looking around for a textbook, they discovered that no working 
manual had ever been written to help people solve their daily 
problems in human relationships. 
Here was a fine kettle of fish! For hundreds of years, learned 
volumes had been written on Greek and Latin and higher 
mathematics - topics about which the average adult doesn't give two 
hoots. But on the one subject on which he has a thirst for 
knowledge, a veritable passion for guidance and help - nothing! 
This explained the presence of twenty-five hundred eager adults 
crowding into the grand ballroom of the Hotel Pennsylvania in 
response to a newspaper advertisement. Here, apparently, at last 
was the thing for which they had long been seeking. 
Back in high school and college, they had pored over books, 
believing that knowledge alone was the open sesame to financial - 
and professional rewards. 
But a few years in the rough-and-tumble of business and 
professional life had brought sharp dissillusionment. They had seen 
some of the most important business successes won by men who 
possessed, in addition to their knowledge, the ability to talk well, to 
win people to their way of thinking, and to "sell" themselves and 
their ideas. 
They soon discovered that if one aspired to wear the captain's cap 
and navigate the ship of business, personality and the ability to talk 
are more important than a knowledge of Latin verbs or a sheepskin 
from Harvard. 
The advertisement in the New York Sun promised that the meeting 
would be highly entertaining. It was. Eighteen people who had taken 
the course were marshaled in front of the loudspeaker - and fifteen 
of them were given precisely seventy-five seconds each to tell his or 
her story. Only seventy-five seconds of talk, then "bang" went the 
gavel, and the chairman shouted, "Time! Next speaker!" 
The affair moved with the speed of a herd of buffalo thundering 
across the plains. Spectators stood for an hour and a half to watch 
the performance. 
The speakers were a cross section of life: several sales 
representatives, a chain store executive, a baker, the president of a 
trade association, two bankers, an insurance agent, an accountant, a 
dentist, an architect, a druggist who had come from Indianapolis to 
New York to take the course, a lawyer who had come from Havana 
in order to prepare himself to give one important three-minute 
speech. 
The first speaker bore the Gaelic name Patrick J. O'Haire. Born in 
Ireland, he attended school for onlyfour years, drifted to America, 
worked as a mechanic, then as a chauffeur. 
Now, however, he was forty, he had a growing family and needed 
more money, so he tried selling trucks. Suffering from an inferiority 
complex that, as he put it, was eating his heart out, he had to walk 
up and down in front of an office half a dozen times before he could 
summon up enough courage to open the door. He was so 
discouraged as a salesman that he was thinking of going back to 
working with his hands in a machine shop, when one day he 
received a letter inviting him to an organization meeting of the Dale 
Carnegie Course in Effective Speaking. 
He didn't want to attend. He feared he would have to associate with 
a lot of college graduates, that he would be out of place. 
His despairing wife insisted that he go, saying, "It may do you some 
good, Pat. God knows you need it." He went down to the place 
where the meeting was to be held and stood on the sidewalk for five 
minutes before he could generate enough self-confidence to enter 
the room. 
The first few times he tried to speak in front of the others, he was 
dizzy with fear. But as the weeks drifted by, he lost all fear of 
audiences and soon found that he loved to talk - the bigger the 
crowd, the better. And he also lost his fear of individuals and of his 
superiors. He presented his ideas to them, and soon he had been 
advanced into the sales department. He had become a valued and 
much liked member of his company. This night, in the Hotel 
Pennsylvania, Patrick O'Haire stoodin front of twenty-five hundred 
people and told a gay, rollicking story of his achievements. Wave 
after wave of laughter swept overthe audience. Few professional 
speakers could have equaled his performance. 
The next speaker, Godfrey Meyer, was a gray-headed banker, the 
father of eleven children. The first time he had attempted to speak in 
class, he was literally struck dumb. His mind refused to function. His 
story is a vivid illustration of how leadership gravitates to the person 
who can talk. 
He worked on Wall Street, and for twenty-five years he had been 
living in Clifton, New Jersey. During that time, he had taken no 
active part in community affairs and knew perhaps five hundred 
people. 
Shortly after he had enrolled in the Carnegie course, he received his 
tax bill and was infuriated by what he considered unjust charges. 
Ordinarily, he would have sat at home and fumed, or he would have 
taken it out in grousing to his neighbors. But instead, he put on his 
hat that night, walked into the town meeting, and blew off steam in 
public. 
As a result of that talk of indignation, the citizens of Clifton, New 
Jersey, urged him to run for the town council. So for weeks he went 
from one meeting to another, denouncing waste and municipal 
extravagance. 
There were ninety-six candidates inthe field. When the ballots were 
counted, lo, Godfrey Meyer's name led all the rest. Almost overnight, 
he had become a public figure among the forty thousand people in 
his community. As a result of his talks, he made eighty times more 
friends in six weeks than he had been able to previously in twentyfive years. 
And his salary as councilman meant that he got a return of 1,000 
percent a year on his investment in the Carnegie course. 
The third speaker, the head of a large national association of food 
manufacturers, told how he had been unable to stand up and 
express his ideas at meetings of a board of directors. 
As a result of learning to think on his feet, two astonishing things 
happened. He was soon made president of his association, and in 
that capacity, he was obliged to address meetings all over the United 
States. Excerpts from his talks were put on the Associated Press 
wires and printed in newspapers and trade magazines throughout 
the country. 
In two years, after learning to speak more effectively, he received 
more free publicity for his company and its products than he had 
been able to get previously with a quarter of a million dollars spent 
in direct advertising. This speaker admitted that he had formerly 
hesitated to telephone some of the more important business 
executives in Manhattan and invite them to lunch with him. But as a 
result of the prestige he had acquired by his talks, these same 
people telephoned him and invited him to lunch and apologized to 
him for encroaching on his time. 
The ability to speak is a shortcut to distinction. It puts a person in 
the limelight, raises one head and shoulders above the crowd. And 
the person who can speak acceptably is usually given credit for an 
ability out of all proportion to what he or she really possesses. 
A movement for adult education has been sweeping over the nation; 
and the most spectacular force in that movement was Dale Carnegie, 
a man who listened to and critiqued more talks by adults than has 
any other man in captivity. According to a cartoon by "Believe-It-orNot" Ripley, he had criticized 150,000 speeches. If that grand total 
doesn't impress you, remember that it meant one talk for almost 
every day that has passed since Columbus discovered America. Or, 
to put it in other words, if all the people who had spoken before him 
had used only three minutes and had appeared before him in 

