The Exact Science of Matrimony (By O. Henry)
Now, the VOA Special English program AMERICAN STORIES.  Our story today is called "The Exact Science of Matrimony."  It was written by O. Henry.  Here is Barbara Klein with the story.
Jeff Peters and Andy Tucker could never be trusted.  One day, the two men decided to open a marriage business to make some quick and easy money.  The first thing they did was to write an advertisement to be published in newspapers.  Their advertisement read like this:
"A charming widow, beautiful and home-loving, would like to remarry.  She is only thirty-two years old.  She has three thousand dollars in cash and owns valuable property in the country.  She would like a poor man with a loving heart.  No objection to an older man or to one who is not good-looking.  But he needs to be faithful and true, can take care of property and invest money with good judgment.  Give address, with details about yourself.  Signed: Lonely, care of Peters and Tucker, agents, Cairo, Illinois."
When they finished writing the ad, Jeff Peters said to Andy Tucker: "So far, so good.  And now, where is the lady?"
Andy gave Jeff an unhappy look.  "What does a marriage advertisement have to do with a lady?" he asked.
"Now listen," Jeff answered.  "You know my rule, Andy.  In all illegal activities, we must obey the law, in every detail.  Something offered for sale must exist.  It must be seen.  You must be able to produce it.  That is how I have kept out of trouble with the police.  Now, for this business to work, we must be able to produce a charming widow, with or without the beauty, as advertised."
"Well," said Andy, after thinking it over, "it might be better, if the United States Post Office should decide to investigate our marriage agency.  But where can you hope to find a widow who would waste her time on a marriage proposal that has no marriage in it?"
Jeff said that he knew just such a woman.
"An old friend of mine, Zeke Trotter," he said, "used to work in a tent show.  He made his wife a widow by drinking too much of the wrong kind of alcohol.  I used to stop at their house often.  I think we can get her to work with us."
Missus Zeke Trotter lived in a small town not far away.  Jeff Peters went out to see her.  She was not beautiful and not so young.  But she seemed all right to Jeff.
"Is this an honest deal you are putting on, Mister Peters?" she asked when he told her what he wanted.
"Missus Trotter," said Jeff, "three thousand men will seek to marry you to get your money and property.  What are they prepared to give in exchange?  Nothing!  Nothing but the bones of a lazy, dishonest, good-for-nothing fortune-seeker.  We will teach them something.  This will be a great moral campaign.  Does that satisfy you?"
"It does, Mister Peters," she said.  "But what will my duties be?  Do I have to personally reject these three thousand good-for-nothings you speak of?  Or can I throw them out in bunches?"
Jeff explained that her job would be easy.  She would live in a quiet hotel and have no work to do.  He and Andy would take care of all letters and the business end of the plot.  But he warned her that some of the men might come to see her in person.  Then, she would have to meet them face-to-face and reject them.  She would be paid twenty-five dollars a week and hotel costs.
"Give me five minutes to get ready," Missus Trotter said.  "Then you can start paying me."
So Jeff took her to the city and put her in a hotel far enough from Jeff and Andy's place to cause no suspicion.
Jeff Peters and Andy Tucker were now ready to catch a few fish on the hook.  They placed their advertisement in newspapers across the country.  They put two thousand dollars in a bank in Missus Trotter's name.  They gave her the bank book to show if anyone questioned the honesty of their marriage agency.  They were sure that Missus Trotter could be trusted and that it was safe to leave the money in her name.
Their ad in the newspapers started a flood of letters – more than one hundred a day.  Jeff and Andy worked twelve hours a day answering them.  Most of the men wrote that they had lost their jobs.  The world misunderstood them.  But they were full of love and other good qualities.
Jeff and Andy answered every letter with high praise for the writer.  They asked the men to send a photograph and more details.  And they told them to include two dollars to cover the cost of giving the second letter to the charming widow.
Almost all the men sent in the two dollars requested.  It seemed to be an easy business.  Still, Andy and Jeff often spoke about the trouble of cutting open envelopes and taking the money out.
A few of the men came in person.  Jeff and Andy sent them to Missus Trotter and she did the rest.  Soon, Jeff and Andy were receiving about two hundred dollars a day.  One day, a federal postal inspector came by.  But Jeff satisfied him that they were not breaking the law.
After about three months, Jeff and Andy had collected more than five thousand dollars, and they decided it was time to stop.  Some people were beginning to question their honesty.  And, Missus Trotter seemed to have grown tired of her job.  Too many men had come to see her and she did not like that.
Jeff went to Missus Trotter's hotel to pay her what she was owed, and to say goodbye.  He also wanted her to repay the two thousand dollars that was put into her bank account.
When Jeff walked into the room she was crying, like a child who did not want to go to school.
"Now, now," he said. "What's it all about?  Somebody hurt you?  Are you getting homesick?"
"No, Mister Peters," she said.  "I'll tell you.  You were always a good friend of my husband Zeke.  Mister Peters, I am in love.  I just love a man so hard I can't bear not to get him.  He's just the kind I've always had in mind."
"Then take him," said Jeff.  "Does he feel the same way about you?"
"He does," Missus Trotter answered.  "But there is a problem.  He is one of the men who have been coming to see me in answer to your advertisement.  And he will not marry me unless I give him the two thousand dollars.  His name is William Wilkinson."
Jeff felt sorry for her.  He said he would be glad to let her give the two thousand dollars to Mister Wilkinson, so that she could be happy.  But he said he had to talk to his partner about it.
Jeff returned to his hotel and discussed it with Andy.
"I was expecting something like this," Andy said.  "You can't trust a woman to stick with you in any plan that involves her emotions."
Jeff said it was a sad thing to think that they were the cause of the breaking of a woman's heart.  Andy agreed with him.
"I'll tell you what I am willing to do," said Andy.  "Jeff, you have always been a man of a soft and generous heart.  Perhaps I have been too hard and worldly and suspicious.  For once, I will meet you half-way.  Go to Missus Trotter.  Tell her to take the two thousand dollars out of the bank and give it to this Wilkinson fellow and be happy."
Jeff shook Andy's hand for a long time.  Then he went back to Missus Trotter.  She cried as hard for joy as she had done for sorrow.
Two days later, Jeff and Andy prepared to leave town.
"Wouldn't you like to go meet Missus Trotter once before we leave?" Jeff asked Andy.  "She'd like to express her thanks to you."
"Why, I guess not," Andy said.  "I think we should hurry and catch the train."
Jeff was putting all the money they had received in a belt he tied around his body.  Then Andy took a large amount of money out of his pocket and asked Jeff to put it together with the other money.
"What's this?" Jeff asked.
"It's Missus Trotter's two thousand dollars," said Andy.
"How do you come to have it?" Jeff asked.
"Missus Trotter gave it to me," Andy answered. "I have been calling on her three nights a week for more than a month."
"Then you are William Wilkinson?" Jeff asked.
"I was," Andy said.
"The Exact Science of Matrimony" was written by O.Henry.  It was adapted for Special English by Shelley Gollust and produced by Lawan Davis.  Your storyteller was Barbara Klein.  You can read and listen to other AMERICAN STORIES on our Web site, voaspecialenglish.com.  I'm Steve Ember.
A Municipal Report
ANNOUNCER: And now, the weekly VOA Special English program of American stories.
Our story today is called "A Municipal Report."  It was written by O. Henry and first published in nineteen-oh-four. Here is Shep ONeal with the story.
STORYTELLE:  It was raining as I got off the train in Nashville, Tennessee -- a slow, gray rain. I was tired so I went straight to my hotel.
A big, heavy man was walking up and down in the hotel lobby. Something about the way he moved made me think of a hungry dog looking for a bone. He had a big, fat, red face and a sleepy expression in his eyes. He introduced himself as Wentworth Caswell -- Major Wentworth Caswell -- from "a fine southern family."  Caswell pulled me into the hotels barroom and yelled for a waiter. We ordered drinks. While we drank, he talked continually about himself, his family, his wife and her family. He said his wife was rich. He showed me a handful of silver coins that he pulled from his coat pocket.
By this time, I had decided that I wanted no more of him. I said good night.
I went up to my room and looked out the window. It was ten oclock but the town was silent. "A nice quiet place," I said to myself as I got ready for bed. Just an ordinary, sleepy southern town."
I was born in the south myself. But I live in New York now. I write for a large magazine. My boss had asked me to go to Nashville. The magazine had received some stories and poems from a writer in Nashville, named Azalea Adair. The editor liked her work very much. The publisher asked me to get her to sign an agreement to write only for his magazine.
I left the hotel at nine oclock the next morning to find Miss Adair. It was still raining.  As soon as I stepped outside I met Uncle Caesar. He was a big, old black man with fuzzy gray hair.
Uncle Caesar was wearing the strangest coat I had ever seen. It must have been a military officers coat. It was very long and when it was new it had been gray. But now rain, sun and age had made it a rainbow of colors. Only one of the buttons was left. It was yellow and as big as a fifty cent coin.
Uncle Caesar stood near a horse and carriage. He opened the carriage door and said softly, "Step right in, sir. Ill take you anywhere in the city."
"I want to go to eight-sixty-one Jasmine Street," I said, and I started to climb into the carriage. But the old man stopped me. "Why do you want to go there, sir? "
"What business is it of yours?" I said angrily. Uncle Caesar relaxed and smiled. "Nothing, sir. But its a lonely part of town. Just step in and Ill take you there right away."
Eight-sixty-one Jasmine Street had been a fine house once, but now it was old and dying. I got out of the carriage.
"That will be two dollars, sir," Uncle Caesar said. I gave him two one-dollar bills. As I handed them to him, I noticed that one had been torn in half and fixed with a piece of blue paper. Also, the upper right hand corner was missing.
Azalea Adair herself opened the door when I knocked. She was about fifty years old. Her white hair was pulled back from her small, tired face. She wore a pale yellow dress. It was old, but very clean.
Azalea Adair led me into her living room. A damaged table, three chairs and an old red sofa were in the center of the floor.
Azalea Adair and I sat down at the table and began to talk. I told her about the magazines offer and she told me about herself. She was from an old southern family. Her father had been a judge.
Azalea Adair told me she had never traveled or even attended school. Her parents taught her at home with private teachers. We finished our meeting. I promised to return with the agreement the next day, and rose to leave.
At that moment, someone knocked at the back door. Azalea Adair whispered a soft apology and went to answer the caller. She came back a minute later with bright eyes and pink cheeks. She looked ten years younger.  "You must have a cup of tea before you go," she said. She shook a little bell on the table, and a small black girl about twelve years old ran into the room.
Azalea Aair opened a tiny old purse and took out a dollar bill. It had been fixed with a piece of blue paper and the upper right hand corner was missing. It was the dollar I had given to Uncle Caesar. "Go to Mr. Bakers store, Impy," she said, "and get me twenty-five cents worth of tea and ten cents worth of sugar cakes. And please hurry."
The child ran out of the room. We heard the back door close. Then the girl screamed. Her cry mixed with a mans angry voice. Azalea Adair stood up. Her face showed no emotion as she left the room. I heard the mans rough voice and her gentle one. Then a door slammed and she came back into the room.
"I am sorry, but I wont be able to offer you any tea after all," she said. "It seems that Mr. Baker has no more tea. Perhaps he will find some for our visit tomorrow."
We said good-bye. I went back to my hotel.
Just before dinner, Major Wentworth Caswell found me. It was impossible to avoid him. He insisted on buying me a drink and pulled two one-dollar bills from his pocket. Again I saw a torn dollar fixed with blue paper, with a corner missing. It was the one I gave Uncle Caesar. How strange, I thought. I wondered how Caswell got it.
Uncle Caesar was waiting outside the hotel the next afternoon. He took me to Miss Adairs house and agreed to wait there until we had finished our business.
Azalea Adair did not look well. I explained the agreement to her. She signed it. Then, as she started to rise from the table, Azalea Adair fainted and fell to the floor. I picked her up and carried her to the old red sofa. I ran to the door and yelled to Uncle Caesar for help. He ran down the street. Five minutes later, he was back with a doctor.
The doctor examined Miss Adair and turned to the old black driver. "Uncle Caesar," he said, "run to my house and ask my wife for some milk and some eggs. Hurry!"
Then the doctor turned to me. "She does not get enough to eat," he said. "She has many friends who want to help her, but she is proud. Misses Caswell will accept help only from that old black man. He was once her familys slave."
"Misses Caswell." I said in surprise. "I thought she was Azalea Adair."
"She was," the doctor answered, "until she married Wentworth Caswell twenty years ago. But hes a hopeless drunk who takes even the small amount of money that Uncle Caesar gives her."
After the doctor left I heard Caesars voice in the other room. "Did he take all the money I gave you yesterday, Miss Azalea?"  "Yes, Caesar," I heard her answer softly. "He took both dollars."
I went into the room and gave Azalea Adair fifty dollars. I told her it was from the magazine. Then Uncle Caesar drove me back to the hotel.
A few hours later, I went out for a walk before dinner. A crowd of people were talking excitedly in front of a store. I pushed my way into the store. Major Caswell was lying on the floor. He was dead.
Someone had found his body on the street. He had been killed in a fight. In fact, his hands were still closed into tight fists. But as I stood near his body, Caswells right hand opened. Something fell from it and rolled near my feet. I put my foot on it, then picked it up and put it in my pocket.
People said they believed a thief had killed him. They said Caswell had been showing everyone that he had fifty dollars. But when he was found, he had no money on him.
I left Nashville the next morning. As the train crossed a river I took out of my pocket the object that had dropped from Caswells dead hand. I threw it into the river below.
It was a button. A yellow button...the one from Uncle Caesars coat.
You have just heard the story "A Municipal Report."   It was written by O. Henry and adapted for Special English by Dona de Sanctis. Your narrator was Shep ONeal.  This is Susan Clark.  Join us again next time for another American story on the Voice of America.
The Gift of the Magi (A Special Story for Christmas)
One dollar and eighty-seven cents. That was all. And sixty cents of it in the smallest pieces of money - pennies. Pennies saved one and two at a time by negotiating with the men at the market who sold vegetables and meat. Negotiating until ones face burned with the silent knowledge of being poor. Three times Della counted it. One dollar and eighty-seven cents. And the next day would be Christmas.
There was clearly nothing to do but sit down and cry. So Della cried. Which led to the thought that life is made up of little cries and smiles, with more little cries than smiles.
Della finished her crying and dried her face. She stood by the window and looked out unhappily at a gray cat walking along a gray fence in a gray back yard. Tomorrow would be Christmas Day, and she had only one dollar and eighty-seven cents to buy her husband Jim a gift. She had been saving every penny she could for months, with this result.
Jim earned twenty dollars a week, which does not go far. Expenses had been greater than she had expected. They always are. Many a happy hour she had spent planning to buy something nice for him. Something fine and rare -- something close to being worthy of the honor of belonging to Jim.
There was a tall glass mirror between the windows of the room.  Suddenly Della turned from the window and stood before the glass mirror and looked at herself. Her eyes were shining, but her face had lost its color within twenty seconds. Quickly she pulled down her hair and let it fall to its full length.
Now, Mr. and Missus James Dillingham Young had two possessions which they valued. One was Jims gold time piece, the watch that had been his fathers and his grandfathers. The other was Dellas hair.
Had the Queen of Sheba lived in their building, Della would have let her hair hang out the window to dry just to reduce the value of the queen's jewels.
So now Dellas beautiful hair fell about her, shining like a brown waterfall. It reached below her knees and made itself almost like a covering for her. And then quickly she put it up again. She stood still while a few tears fell on the floor.
She put on her coat and her old brown hat. With a quick motion and brightness still in her eyes, she danced out the door and down the street.
Where she stopped the sign read: "Madame Sofronie. Hair Goods of All Kinds." Della ran up the steps to the shop, out of breath.
"Will you buy my hair?" asked Della.
"I buy hair," said Madame. "Take your hat off and let us have a look at it."
Down came the beautiful brown waterfall of hair.
"Twenty dollars," said Madame, lifting the hair with an experienced hand.
"Give it to me quick," said Della.
The next two hours went by as if they had wings. Della looked in all the stores to choose a gift for Jim.
She found it at last. It surely had been made for Jim and no one else.  It was a chain -- simple round rings of silver. It was perfect for Jim's gold watch.  As soon as she saw it she knew that it must be for him. It was like him. Quiet and with great value. She gave the shopkeeper twenty-one dollars and she hurried home with the eighty-seven cents that was left.
When Della arrived home she began to repair what was left of her hair.  The hair had been ruined by her love and her desire to give a special gift. Repairing the damage was a very big job.
Within forty minutes her head was covered with tiny round curls of hair that made her look wonderfully like a schoolboy. She looked at herself in the glass mirror long and carefully.
"If Jim does not kill me before he takes a second look at me," she said to herself, "hell say I look like a song girl. But what could I do--oh! what could I do with a dollar and eighty-seven cents?"
At seven oclock that night the coffee was made and the pan on the back of the stove was hot and ready to cook the meat.
Jim was never late coming home from work.  Della held the silver chain in her hand and sat near the door. Then she heard his step and she turned white for just a minute. She had a way of saying a little silent prayer about the simplest everyday things, and now she whispered: "Please God, make him think I am still pretty."
The door opened and Jim stepped in. He looked thin and very serious. Poor man, he was only twenty-two and he had to care for a wife.  He needed a new coat and gloves to keep his hands warm.
Jim stopped inside the door, as immovable as a dog smelling a bird. His eyes were fixed upon Della. There was an expression in them that she could not read, and it frightened her. It was not anger, nor surprise, nor fear, nor any of the feelings that she had been prepared for. He simply looked at her with a strange expression on his face. Della went to him.
"Jim, my love," she cried, "do not look at me that way. I had my hair cut and sold because I could not have lived through Christmas without giving you a gift. My hair will grow out again. I just had to do it.  My hair grows very fast.  Say 'Merry Christmas! Jim, and let us be happy. You do not know what a nice-- what a beautiful, nice gift I have for you."
"You have cut off your hair?" asked Jim, slowly, as if he had not accepted the information even after his mind worked very hard.
"Cut it off and sold it," said Della. "Do you not like me just as well? I am the same person without my hair, right?
Jim looked about the room as if he were looking for something.
"You say your hair is gone?" he asked.
"You need not look for it," said Della. "It is sold, I tell you--sold and gone, too. It is Christmas Eve, boy. Be good to me, for it was cut for you. Maybe the hairs of my head were numbered," she went on with sudden serious sweetness, "but nobody could ever count my love for you. Shall I put the meat on, Jim?"
Jim seemed to awaken quickly and put his arms around Della. Then he took a package from his coat and threw it on the table.
"Do not make any mistake about me, Dell," he said. "I do not think there is any haircut that could make me like my girl any less. But if you will open that package you may see why you had me frightened at first."
White fingers quickly tore at the string and paper. There was a scream of joy; and then, alas! a change to tears and cries, requiring the man of the house to use all his skill to calm his wife.
For there were the combs -- the special set of objects to hold her hair that Della had wanted ever since she saw them in a shop window. Beautiful combs, made of shells, with jewels at the edge --just the color to wear in the beautiful hair that was no longer hers. They cost a lot of money, she knew, and her heart had wanted them without ever hoping to have them. And now, the beautiful combs were hers, but the hair that should have touched them was gone.
But she held the combs to herself, and soon she was able to look up with a smile and say, "My hair grows so fast, Jim!"
Then Della jumped up like a little burned cat and cried, "Oh, oh!"
Jim had not yet seen his beautiful gift. She happily held it out to him in her open hands. The silver chain seemed so bright.
"Isnt it wonderful, Jim? I looked all over town to find it. You will have to look at the time a hundred times a day now. Give me your watch. I want to see how it looks on it."
Instead of obeying, Jim fell on the couch and put his hands under the back of his head and smiled.
"Dell," said he, "let us put our Christmas gifts away and keep them a while. They are too nice to use just right now. I sold my gold watch to get the money to buy the set of combs for your hair. And now, why not put the meat on."
The magi were wise men--wonderfully wise men--who brought gifts to the Baby Jesus. They invented the art of giving Christmas gifts. Being wise, their gifts were wise ones. And here I have told you the story of two young people who most unwisely gave for each other the greatest treasures of their house. But in a last word to the wise of these days, let it be said that of all who give gifts, these two were the wisest. Everywhere they are wisest. They are the magi.
You have heard the American story "The Gift of the Magi."  This story was written by O. Henry and adapted into Special English by Karen Leggett. Your storyteller was Shep O'Neal.  The producer was Lawan Davis.
Listen again next week at this time for another American story in VOA Special English. I'm Shirley Griffith.
But she held the combs to herself, and soon she was able to look up with a smile and say, "My hair grows so fast, Jim!"
Then Della jumped up like a little burned cat and cried, "Oh, oh!"
Jim had not yet seen his beautiful gift. She happily held it out to him in her open hands. The silver chain seemed so bright.
"Isn’t it wonderful, Jim? I looked all over town to find it. You will have to look at the time a hundred times a day now. Give me your watch. I want to see how it looks on it."
Instead of obeying, Jim fell on the couch and put his hands under the back of his head and smiled.
"Dell," said he, "let us put our Christmas gifts away and keep them a while. They are too nice to use just right now. I sold my gold watch to get the money to buy the set of combs for your hair. And now, why not put the meat on."
The magi were wise men--wonderfully wise men--who brought gifts to the Baby Jesus. They invented the art of giving Christmas gifts. Being wise, their gifts were wise ones. And here I have told you the story of two young people who most unwisely gave for each other the greatest treasures of their house. But in a last word to the wise of these days, let it be said that of all who give gifts, these two were the wisest. Everywhere they are wisest. They are the magi.
You have heard the American story "The Gift of the Magi."  This story was written by O. Henry and adapted into Special English by Karen Leggett. Your storyteller was Shep O'Neal.  The producer was Lawan Davis.
Listen again next week at this time for another American story in VOA Special English. I'm Shirley Griffith.