U.S. jobless claims fall marginally last week
Job seekers wait to meet with employers at a career fair in New York City, October 24, 2012. REUTERS/Mike Segar
Job seekers wait to meet with employers at a career fair in New York City, October 24, 2012.
CREDIT: REUTERS/MIKE SEGAR
(Reuters) - The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell marginally last week, but continues to point to steadily improving labor market conditions.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits slipped 2,000 to a seasonally adjusted 312,000 for the week ended June 21, the Labor Department said on Thursday.
The prior week's claims were revised to show 2,000 more applications received than previously reported.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast first-time applications for jobless aid dipping to 310,000 last week.
A Labor Department analyst said there were no special factors influencing the state level data.
The four-week moving average for new claims, considered a better measure of underlying labor market conditions as it irons out week-to-week volatility, rose 2,000 to 314,250 last week.
With the labor market normalizing, there is probably little room for claims to drop much further. The declining claims suggest a recent streak of payroll job gains is likely to be sustained.
Data on job openings has also pointed to strengthening job growth. The economy has experienced four straight months of job gains above 200,000, a stretch last seen in early 2000.
The claims report showed the number of people still receiving benefits after an initial week of aid rose 12,000 to 2.57 million in the week ended June 14.
That covered the survey period for household employment from which the jobless rate is calculated.
So-called continuing claims fell 52,000 between the May and June survey periods, suggesting scope for the unemployment rate to decline from a 5-1/2 year low of 6.3 percent.
(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci)
U.S. economy collapses in first quarter, but growing again
BY LUCIA MUTIKANI
Robotic arms spot welds on the chassis of a Ford Transit Van under assembly at the Ford Claycomo Assembly Plant in Claycomo, Missouri April 30, 2014.  REUTERS/Dave Kaup
Robotic arms spot welds on the chassis of a Ford Transit Van under assembly at the Ford Claycomo Assembly Plant in Claycomo, Missouri April 30, 2014.
CREDIT: REUTERS/DAVE KAUP
RELATED NEWS
New GDP report a sign U.S. still recovering from recession: White House
(Reuters) - The U.S. economy contracted at a much steeper pace in the first quarter than previously estimated, turning in one of its worst-ever non-recession performances, but growth already appears to have rebounded strongly.
The Commerce Department said on Wednesday gross domestic product fell at a 2.9 percent annual rate, the sharpest decline in five years, instead of the 1.0 percent pace it had reported last month.
"It's a scary report. It sounds worrisome, but keep in mind job growth is running 200,000 each of the last four months, so we aren't just whistling in the dark in our optimism over the outlook," said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York.
The economy was held back by an unusually cold winter, the expiration of long-term unemployment benefits and cuts to food stamps, which curbed consumer spending. It was also weighed down by a slowdown in the pace of restocking by businesses.
All these temporary factors have since faded, lifting growth early in the second quarter.
The government's gauge of first-quarter growth has been lowered by 3.0 percentage points since the first estimate in April showed the economy expanded at a 0.1 percent rate, and revision between the May and June release was the largest on records going back to 1976.
Economists had expected the revision to show the economy shrinking at a rate of only 1.7 percent. Given the sharp downgrade, growth this year could struggle to reach 2 percent.
Investors shrugged off the weak data and bought U.S. stocks. Prices for U.S. Treasury debt were up at mid-day, while the dollar was marginally weaker against a basket of currencies.
The latest GDP revision reflected a weaker pace of healthcare spending than previously assumed, which led to a cut in the figure for consumer spending to show the slowest rise since the fourth quarter of 2009. Trade was also a bigger drag on the economy than previously thought.
ACTIVITY PICKING UP
The economy grew at a 2.6 percent pace in the final three months of 2013, and second-quarter growth estimates range as high as a 4.0 percent rate. The lofty growth expectations were supported by other data on Wednesday showing activity in the services sector hitting a 4-1/2 year high in June.
While a decline in bookings for defense capital goods and civilian aircraft sank orders for long-lasting U.S. manufactured goods in May, according to a third report, businesses spending plans rebounded from April's slump. That suggested a steady pick-up in business investment, a crucial ingredient for sustained economic growth.
There were also increases in order backlogs and inventories.
"Outside the defense realm, orders are moving up, shipments are moving up, and inventory gains are returning. That is the precise recipe for production and job gains," said Michael Montgomery, a U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts.
In the first quarter, growth in consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity, was lowered to a 1.0 percent rate from a 3.1 percent pace.
Exports fell at a 8.9 percent rate, the biggest drop in five years, instead of a 6.0 percent pace. That resulted in a trade deficit that sliced off 1.53 percentage points from GDP growth.
Other drags to first-quarter growth included a slow pace of inventory accumulation, a sharp drop in investment in non-residential structures such as gas drilling, and weak government spending on defense.
Businesses accumulated $45.9 billion worth of inventories, a bit less than the $49.0 billion estimated last month and well below the fourth quarter pace. Inventories subtracted 1.70 percentage points from first-quarter growth, but should be a boost to second-quarter growth
A measure of domestic demand that strips out exports and inventories expanded at a 0.3 percent rate, the weakest pace in three years, rather than 1.6 percent as reported a month ago.
(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci)
Bank of England caps some home loans, toughens mortgage affordability tests
BY ANA NICOLACI DA COSTA AND HUW JONES
Estate agents boards are lined up outside houses in south London June 3, 2014. REUTERS/Andrew Winning
Estate agents boards are lined up outside houses in south London June 3, 2014.
CREDIT: REUTERS/ANDREW WINNING
(Reuters) - The Bank of England sought to put the brakes on Britain's surging housing market on Thursday by announcing a cap on home loans and tougher checks on whether borrowers can repay their mortgages.
The Bank's Financial Policy Committee said that from October, it would only allow 15 percent of new mortgages to be at multiples higher than 4.5 times a borrowers' income.
Britain's housing market has seen a stellar recovery thanks to record-low interest rates, falling unemployment and government-sponsored schemes.
But policymakers have become increasingly concerned about momentum in the housing market, with prices growing at around 10 percent annually in Britain and at nearly double that rate in London where cash buyers from abroad are also fuelling demand.
"(These measures) will prevent lending getting too far ahead of income growth and they'll prevent a slide into riskier lending and higher indebtedness that could undermine the economic expansion over the medium term," BoE Governor Mark Carney said at a news conference to present the measures.
Share prices in British house building companies rose by more than 5 percent after markets judged the measures were less harsh than feared, and British government bond prices hit a day's low as Carney said the measures would not affect rates.
"They're less likely to have implications for the path of monetary policy which currently anticipates limited and gradual rate rises over the forecast horizon," he said.
The Council of Mortgage Lenders said the steps were more likely to affect lending in London - where almost a fifth of loans are at loan-to-income ratios above 4.5 - than in the rest of the country, where the cap would affect less than 10 percent of loans.
"Additional housing supply to help correct the imbalance between supply and demand is the main way of relieving affordability pressure and household indebtedness attributable to mortgage borrowing over the long term," the CML said.
The cap will affect all banks which lend more than 100 million pounds ($170 million) a year, and finance minister George Osborne said the measures will apply to all loans under the government's Help to Buy scheme, which guarantees high loan-to-value mortgages.
The BoE has said it does not aim to curb house prices directly, but instead it is focused on ensuring that lending does not get out of control. It has warned that mortgage conditions appear to be getting more lax.
"This is the limits of our tolerance and that's why there is a cap in place. We will evaluate, if we need to recalibrate, we will," Carney said.
The FPC also recommended affordability tests introduced in April should be toughened.
Borrowers will from Thursday have to show they can repay the home loan even if interest rates rise 3 percent, compared with at least 1 percent previously.
Interest rates are currently at a record low of 0.5 percent, although markets expect a rise by the end of the year or early next year.
The Bank of England said the immediate impact of the cap would be minimal since most lenders currently lend within this 4.5 times limit and are likely to continue to do so. It said the measure was intended to be an insurance against greater momentum in the housing market.
The move is the latest in a series of efforts by policymakers to cool the housing sector, which have already weighed on mortgage approvals in recent months.
The Bank's Prudential Regulation Authority also said the top eight British banks must maintain a core capital buffer of 7 percent, and a leverage ratio of 3 percent.
(Additional reporting by David Milliken, Andy Bruce and Kate Holton; Editing by Catherine Evans)
Minorities seen driving U.S. household growth: study
BY MORIAH COSTA
Homes are seen under construction in the southwest area of Portland, Oregon March 20, 2014.   REUTERS/Steve Dipaola
Homes are seen under construction in the southwest area of Portland, Oregon March 20, 2014.
CREDIT: REUTERS/STEVE DIPAOLA
RELATED TOPICS
U.S. »
Housing Market »
(Reuters) - Minorities will account for more than one-third of U.S. households by 2025 and make up nearly half of first-time homebuyers, according to a study released on Thursday.
The Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University estimated the number of households, which currently stands at slightly more than 122 million, will increase by between 11.6 million and 13.2 million over 2015-2025.
In 2025, 36 percent of households will be headed by minorities, the study said, up from about 31.6 percent in 2013.
Of those, nearly half will be in the 25-34 age bracket that dominates the first-time buyer market. The study cautioned, however, that the numbers depend importantly on mortgage availability, given the limited incomes of many minorities.
The age composition of households is also due to change. With the aging of the baby boomer generation, the number of households aged 65 and older is likely to increase by 10.7 million by 2025, the study said.
At the same time, the forecasts project a shift into homeownership from so-called millennials - young adults currently in their 20s - many of whom have chosen to live with their parents even though they are employed. Their decision to stay home since the U.S. housing bubble burst is one factor cited for the nation's 18-year-low homeownership rate.
As they enter their 30s, the study predicts members of this generation will increasingly strike out on their own, increasing households by 2.7 million over the next decade. Rising student debt could delay the shift, however, the study warned.
(Reporting by Moriah Costa; Editing by Tom Brown)
Thai May exports fall, but hopes rise that economy can avoid recession
BY ORATHAI SRIRING AND KITIPHONG THAICHAREON
 (Reuters) - Thai exports fell more than expected in May, showing that a pillar of the economy remains weak and underscoring the tough task the military government faces kick-starting growth after seven months of political turmoil.
On May 22, the Thai army seized power in a bid to restore order and get on track a stumbling economy battered by weak demand and reduced tourist arrivals. In January-March, the economy shrank 2.1 percent from the previous three months.
Exports, which are equivalent to more than half of gross domestic product (GDP), were down 2.14 percent in May from a year earlier, the Commerce Ministry said. A Reuters poll had forecast a drop of 1 percent, similar to April's fall.
This year, Thai exports have been weak even though the political crisis has not disrupted factories or ports, and the world economy has been somewhat better.
The ministry said the main factor for May's export fall "was lower global prices, especially rubber and sugar, which we can't control."
"Exports are expected to recover fast in the second half following a global economic recovery and there are signs of a recovery in exports of industrial goods," the ministry said.
In May, imports fell for a 10th straight month on an annual basis, but dodged a fifth straight double-digit slump. They declined 9.32 percent, less than the poll's 14.0 percent drop.
Thailand is a regional hub and export base for global automakers and a major producer of hard disk drives. Many of its imported materials go into assembled goods and are shipped out again.
Imports of capital goods such as machinery, computers and parts dropped 14.8 percent in May from a year earlier, compared with a fall of 16.3 percent in April
For January-May, exports were 1.22 percent below a year earlier. In May, shipments to the United States rose 2.8 percent and those to Europe were up 11.9 percent from the previous year, but those to China were down 5.7 percent
Pimonwan Mahujchariyawong, economist with Kasikorn Research Center, said she's just cut her 2014 export growth forecast to 3 percent from 5 percent.
"But we've raised our GDP growth forecast for this year to 2.3 percent from 1.8 percent because things have started to improve from the first quarter, when everything was stalled," she said.
Pimonwan said that the junta's payment to about 92 billion baht ($2.8 billion) owed to rice farmers should boost consumption and other factors like the lifting of curfews are "lifting sentiment".
She expects quarter-on-quarter growth of 1.4 percent in April-June, "so Thailand will not enter a technical recession".
The Bank of Thailand (BOT) last week forecast 0.5 percent contraction in the first half, which ING said implies zero growth in April-June.
The BOT cut its full-year growth forecast to 1.5 percent from 2.7 percent.
TOURISM NUMBERS
On Friday, the BOT will give a revised forecast for export growth. The Commerce Ministry has cut its projection to 3.5 percent from 5 percent.
Tourism, which accounts for 10 percent of the economy, is expected to improve in the second half, industry executives say.
"June should be the last month that we will see a fall in tourist numbers," said Piyaman Techapaiboon, president of the Tourism Council of Thailand.
She predicted the number of tourist arrivals would fall 8.4 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier but would increase 5.2 percent in the third quarter and 12.5 percent in the final three months.
In the first five months, the number of tourist arrivals dropped 6 percent from a year earlier. The council forecast tourist arrivals of 26.8 million for this year, up slightly from 26.6 million last year.
(Editing by Richard Borsuk)
U.S. services sector expands at fastest pace in four-and-a-half years
Patrons have lunch at Kate Mantilini restaurant in Beverly Hills, California June 4, 2014.  REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni
Patrons have lunch at Kate Mantilini restaurant in Beverly Hills, California June 4, 2014.
CREDIT: REUTERS/MARIO ANZUONI
(Reuters) - The U.S. services sector expanded in June at the fastest pace in at least 4-1/2 years, pushed higher by increasing business activity, a survey showed on Wednesday.
Financial data firm Markit said its "flash" services Purchasing Managers Index hit 61.2 in June, the highest reading since the survey began in October 2009, compared with May's final reading of 58.1.
A reading above 50 signals expansion in economic activity.
The services sector added employees at the fastest rate on record, matching the 55.4 reading hit in September 2013. Last month it read 52.8.
Markit's "flash" composite PMI, a weighted average of its manufacturing and services indexes, hit 61.1 in June, also a record high, versus 58.4 in May.
"Importantly, this is not just a rebound from the weather-related disruptions to business seen earlier in the year," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit.
"Companies are reporting strong demand for goods and services, linked to growing confidence among households and business customers, setting the scene for further robust economic growth as we move into the second half of the year."
He said growth in excess of 3.0 percent for the second quarter "would not be a surprise."
(Reporting by Rodrigo Campos, Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
Analysis: Game changer or symbolic move - U.S. debates condensate exports
(Reuters) - Facing a growing domestic oversupply, a U.S. crude oil producer and a pipeline company waged a quiet crusade in Washington earlier this year aimed at easing a decades-long ban on crude exports.
That effort has in part paid off as the Department of Commerce gave both the go-ahead to export an ultra-light oil known as condensate, if it has been minimally refined.
Any company interested in exporting condensate now has a definition for what is exportable.
The approvals effectively upended decades-old guidelines that condensate had to run through a refinery or a splitter before it could be shipped abroad. The Commerce Department's action could unleash as much as $6 billion a year of condensate onto the global market, analysts say.
That is a fraction of the country's daily crude output, but for Pioneer Natural Resources Co (PXD.N) and Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD.N), the benefits are clear: new homes abroad for the product will revive lackluster prices and help deal with the oversupply. Both have operations in the Eagle Ford shale in Texas, which is rich in condensate.
The news rippled across markets, driving U.S. oil up $1 a barrel, sending the value of Enterprise and Pioneer soaring, and hammering shares of major U.S. refiners such as Valero Energy Corp. (VLO.N) due to the potential for higher costs. Most refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast are built to run heavier crudes from Canada or Venezuela.
Even so, the long-term impact is unclear. Some see it as the first critical step toward loosening a decades-long ban on crude exports while others viewed it as a largely symbolic move that merely clarified laws that were already on the books.
"This permit cracks the door open, but it's probably still in its baby steps," said Pearce Hammond, an analyst at Simmons & Co International.
While the White House has said there has been no change in policy for crude oil exports, the approvals fueled a debate over what might be feasible under the existing 1975 Energy Policy and Conservation Act as the U.S. energy boom continues.
The topic has emerged as one of the most contentious energy policy issues this year, and the White House is unlikely to drop the crude export ban ahead of midterm elections.
HISTORIC SHIFT
Condensate exports, for some a historic shift for the U.S. oil market, could reach 100,000 to 300,000 barrels per day by the end of the year, Citigroup said in a recent research note. That volume could double in 2015.
As long as the crude has been through a stabilizer, a light form of processing, it is now deemed sufficiently processed to qualify as a refined product and therefore eligible for export without a license, the government told Pioneer and Enterprise.
Other letters approving exports of stabilized content are expected, according to a refining executive, who declined to be named because of company policy.
"What it means is that the floodgates of exports will be opened now," said Citigroup analyst Ed Morse.
Latin American oil companies are already lined up and waiting for the exports, according to one market participant.
In the United States, the export clarification is welcome news for a niche group of companies that already operate or are building stabilizing capacity on the Gulf Coast.
"This will change the whole condensate marketing landscape," said Josh Weber, senior vice president of commercial and business development for Howard Energy Partners, a Texas company that is building a 10,000 barrels-per-day (bpd) stabilizer in the condensate-heavy Eagle Ford shale near Corpus Christi, Texas.
CLASSIFYING CONDENSATE
Industry executives said the government's clarification - that minimal processing clears condensate for export - is likely to raise condensate prices and create a stronger market for what has been a distressed type of crude that lacked healthy demand.
A distillation tower attached to a stabilizer can remove some of the most volatile components in condensate, including butane, ethane, propane and pentanes, called the C5s. In turn, it reduces the vapor pressure. After going through the process, the liquid is still considered condensate.
Historically, condensate stabilizers were used to meet pipeline specifications.
ANOTHER FALSE ALARM
Some others were more hesitant about declaring the move a game changer, because the possible volume for export is low and the costs of investment in stabilizers may be high.
"You might get a lot of investment in the field in splitters and separators that may be lost at some point in the future and stranded when you actually go to a (fuller) export route," said Frank Verrastro, energy and geopolitics expert at the Center for Strategic and International studies.
Even so, by starting to open up the market, Pioneer's creativity showed that other unforeseen opportunities may exist, said Morgan Stanley analysts.
"Pioneer's success in arguing that a lightly processed condensate is a refined product shows the administration is being thoughtful about the crude export issue."
(Reporting By Catherine Ngai, Jessica Resnick-Ault, Kristen Hays, Timothy Gardner, Josh Schneyer, Anna Sussman, Marianna Parraga and Edward McAllister; Writing by Jessica Resnick-Ault; Editing by Josephine Mason and Steve Orlofsky)
Yellen may be poised to rewrite Fed's rule book on wages, inflation
U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen holds a news conference following two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting at the Federal Reserve in Washington June 18, 2014.  REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst
U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen holds a news conference following two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting at the Federal Reserve in Washington June 18, 2014.
CREDIT: REUTERS/JONATHAN ERNST
(Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen wants to see U.S. wages climb at a much brisker clip to boost consumer spending and help workers recoup ground they lost in the last recession, but she'll have to fend off policymakers who fear that could cause inflation to surge.
As she seeks to maintain a consensus at the central bank, Yellen will have strong arguments in favor of nursing the recovery for longer and should be able to counter any calls for an early interest rate hike.
Research from the Fed's staff and her own past academic work both suggest there may be more slack in the economy than inflation hawks believe, and that businesses in recent years have been slower to raise prices than they were previously.
If that is the case, then interest rates could remain lower for longer and inflation allowed to push beyond the Fed's 2 percent target without fear of it losing control. It's a policy Yellen has indicated she is willing to pursue to encourage wage growth and bring as many workers as possible back into the full-time labor market.
The connection between faster wage gains and a healthy jobs market is emerging as a core principle for the new Fed chief, who has said she expects pay to accelerate to something close to the long-run growth rate of 3 percent to 4 percent a year from the current level of around 2 percent.
"My own expectation is that, as the labor market begins to tighten, we will see wage growth pick up some to the point where ... nominal wages are rising more rapidly than inflation, so households are getting a real increase in their take home pay," she said last week, adding: "If we were to fail to see that, frankly, I would worry about downside risk to consumer spending."
Yellen has balanced her concerns over a weak labor market and slow wage growth with a commitment to price stability in the long run. And for now, she contends, there is no tension between the two because there is so much slack in the economy.
The debate, however, may well test the limits of the Fed's tolerance for inflation. For some policymakers, that limit is already close.
In comments on Tuesday, Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Plosser said Fed policy had already become "too passive," and the central bank needed to better explain why another year of near zero interest rates is justified.
But it also touches on a fundamental issue: Can the United States again generate the jobs and wages growth needed to support an expanding middle class?
"STICKIER" ECONOMY
Fed staff economists accepted in 2010 that labor's share of annual U.S. output, which over a decade had dropped to around 56 percent from its long-term average of around 62 percent, was unlikely to recover.
Before that, the relative stability of labor's share of output had provided a benchmark for Fed forecasters, helping them to anticipate a rise in prices if labor's share of output crept above the norm, or a rise in wages if labor's share was below average.
But the financial crisis of 2008-2009 and the painful recovery since then has cast doubts over how wages, prices and employment will play out in the future, clouding the outlook for monetary policy and the potential date for any rate rise.
Over the last year Fed staff changed their main model for forecasting wage and price inflation to reflect evidence that companies were adjusting prices more slowly than in prior years. That implies the Fed has more time to allow wages to rise and employment to expand before having to be concerned about inflation accelerating.
Yellen's own academic work describes the potential benefits of patience as the Fed approaches its first cycle of interest rate increases in six years.
In a 1990 paper, "Waiting for Work," co-authored with her economist husband George Akerlof and another researcher, Yellen discussed how in the wake of a downturn skilled workers might wait until wages recover before returning to the labor force, rather than accept inferior pay.
One issue the Fed is closely watching is whether sidelined workers will start looking for jobs again as conditions improve. The labor force participation rate has dropped steadily, from 66.4 percent at the end of 2006 to 62.8 percent last month - a level not seen since the late 1970s when participation rates were rising as more women joined the workforce.
Yellen also delved into an issue that has puzzled labor economists - why wages aren't typically cut in a downturn. Her research outlined a number of possibilities, including that companies realize upsetting workers may only cost companies more in the long run as some will quit or become less productive, while rehiring in a recovery will prove more costly. 
    But a flip side is that, as economies recover, firms make up for the lack of wage cuts by keeping worker pay constant for as long as possible.
The San Francisco Fed, where Yellen served as president until 2010, tracks the percentage of workers whose wages did not rise in the prior year. The bank's "Wage Rigidity Meter" remains near an all-time high - evidence it will take more time before the type of wage-growth Yellen hopes to see.
San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President John Williams was explicit in a recent paper, saying the Fed "should trade a transitory period of excessive inflation" for stronger job markets.
AMONG BUSINESSES, A MUDDLED OUTLOOK
Business owners and analysts in labor-intensive industries paint a muddled picture on the ground of firms that will remain reluctant to hire unless they are jolted to a new level of certainty that the economy will expand and that the incomes of their customers will grow.
Restaurants are one of the industries that can pull less skilled and discouraged workers back into the labor force. Industry officials say there is little evidence restaurant wages, staffing levels or revenues are poised for liftoff.
Restaurant owners "want to see things shake out," and were being very careful about only hiring when they really had to, said Scott DeFife, government affairs head for the National Restaurant Association.
In the building industry, one of the sectors that continues to worry the Fed, entrepreneurs and analysts describe an economy poised for better performance - but lodged in a circular, you-go-first stare-down among consumers, businesses and banks, with the unemployed stuck on the sidelines.
Rick Judson, owner of Charlotte-based Evergreen Development Group, said the first-time home buyers his business relies on will remain a reluctant lot until the economy improves. But that may not happen until people start buying more homes.
The building subcontractors he hires are similarly on the fence. They see a lack of housing supply, but are unwilling to hire carpenters and electricians in numbers large enough to address it, fearful the recovery might not have staying power.
"My subcontractors worry, do I hire four extra people, or hire two with the expectation that I ride it out for a few extra months," he said. "There is a mentality not of fear, but of caution. Extreme caution."
(Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Martin Howell)