Luis Suarez 'bite': Uruguay striker's hearing continues
Luis Suarez must wait to learn if he is guilty of biting Italy's Giorgio Chiellini during a World Cup game.
An independent disciplinary panel looking into Tuesday's incident failed to reach a verdict on Wednesday.
“We didn't choose him to be a philosopher, or a mechanic, or to have good manners... he's a great player”
Uruguay president Jose Mujica
"They met for a long time but we don't know if that is good or bad," said Uruguayan Football Association president Wilmar Valdez.
World governing body Fifa says the Uruguay striker's previous record for biting may be taken into account.
The Liverpool striker was banned for 10 games for biting Chelsea defender Branislav Ivanovic during a Premier League match in 2013 and was also suspended for seven games for biting PSV Eindhoven midfielder Otman Bakkal in 2010.
The 27-year-old clashed with Juventus defender Chiellini during Tuesday's 2014 Fifa World Cup Group D game in Natal, which Uruguay won to qualify for the last 16.
Play media
World Cup 2014: Match of the Day pundits react to Luis Suarez 'bite'
Match of the Day pundits react to the 'bite'
Mexican referee Marco Rodriguez took no action, but Fifa subsequently charged Suarez with misconduct.
The independent panel, chaired by Swiss lawyer Claudio Sulser, has a range of sanctions available - up to a 24-match ban or two-year suspension from all football.
Suarez has received support from Uruguay captain Diego Lugano and the country's president, Jose Mujica, while he waits for a verdict.
Both stated that the television pictures that will form the basis of the Fifa investigation are inconclusive.
Lugano told the BBC: "What incident? The pictures don't show anything. They show an approximation."
Mujica, 79, a former guerrilla fighter and political prisoner, added that Fifa should not use television evidence to retrospectively punish players.
Chiellini
Chiellini pulled down his shirt to display what appear to be bite marks on his shoulder
"I didn't see him bite anyone and, in football, I was taught that you obey what the referee says," Mujica said.
"If we're going to take decisions in football based on what TV says, then there are loads of penalties and handballs you'd have to give that weren't given, so bad luck."
Mujica said the striker should be judged solely on his football ability and questioned why he should be held up as a behavioural role model.
"We didn't choose him to be a philosopher, or a mechanic, or to have good manners," he said. "He's a great player."
World Cup 2014: How Uruguay closed ranks over Luis Suarez
By Ben Smith
BBC Sport in Natal
For much of the day in the north-eastern Brazilian city of Natal it was as if the Luis Suarez incident had not happened at all.
The name of the Liverpool striker, accused of biting Italy's Giorgio Chiellini, was the one that dare not be spoken in and around the Uruguay camp on Wednesday.
How BBC reporter made headlines in Uruguay
BBC Sport's Ben Smith attended a Uruguay news conference to ask about Luis Suarez. Here is Brazilian website Globo's account of events:
It fell to captain Diego Lugano to be the centre of attention for questions. The defender was engaged in a particular duel with an English journalist, who was willing to ask about 'Luisito', the centre of controversy when he was at Liverpool.
When Lugano arrived to give his interview, the Englishman was the first one to ask a question. He began by referring to the Suarez bite as an "incident".
"What incident? What incident?" retorted Lugano gruffly. "Are you talking about the Premier League? Yesterday's pictures don't show anything."
"When the journalist tried to communicate in English, he was cut short by Lugano, who claimed he would only speak in Spanish. The defender continued to defend Luisito against the questions that followed.
"I know that the British media persecute Suarez, that is known," he said. "We have played against Italy, we will play against Colombia. So what is a British journalist doing here at our team base? I don't have any other explanation. You can see by your face that you are happy about this."
Read the full Globo story (in Portuguese) 
The man at the centre of this World Cup's greatest controversy was nowhere to be seen. His Uruguay team-mates refused to criticise the behaviour of a player they said had done nothing wrong.
A heated exchange with Uruguay captain Diego Lugano during a news conference summed up the mood. "I don't know what a British journalist is doing here in our camp talking about Luis Suarez," he said to me. "I don't see any real explanation."
According to Lugano, I was in the wrong for asking a question about Suarez. The superstar footballer who appeared to have bitten an opponent for the third time in his career was not.
Lugano, a former West Bromwich Albion defender, understands English. On this occasion, though, he refused to take questions unless they were in Spanish.
Basic Spanish and internet translation tools came to the rescue, though. "Diego, que piensas sobre el incidente Suarez," I asked. Had he seen the Suarez incident?
"What incident?" was his response. This was a camp, a country, united in denial, united by a desire to protect a friend, a team-mate, a player key to their ambitions, united by a clear belief that this was an unfair campaign driven by foreign media.
"I don't know what you're talking about," Lugano continued. "Are you talking about the Premier League or the national team? Have you got something against Luis?"
Less than 24 hours earlier I, along with thousands of others, had been at Estadio das Dunas in Natal when Suarez had fallen to the floor clutching his teeth while defender Chiellini complained to the referee that he had been bitten on the shoulder by the striker.
"He must sell newspapers, otherwise you wouldn't be here," Lugano added.
I continued in Spanish. "Are you saying nothing happened with Chiellini?"
"No," he said. "The TV pictures don't show anything. Nothing important."
So why is Fifa investigating Suarez then?
Shearer: Wayne Rooney my choice as England's next captain
If Steven Gerrard decides now is the time for him to end his international career then Wayne Rooney would be my choice to succeed him as England captain.
There are not a lot of other outstanding candidates for the job, but that does not matter because Rooney is ready and would be perfect.
He is not only England's best player but he has the experience. He was also mature enough to deal with the scrutiny that he was under at the start of this tournament.
I know myself that being England captain brings added pressure, but Rooney will be used to that because of who he is and what he has achieved so far in his career.
Glen Hoddle and Alan Shearer
Shearer scored two goals at France 1998, where he captained England
Strikers can be skippers
When Glenn Hoddle made me England captain after the 1996 European Championship, he gave it to me on a trial basis at first.
Hoddle told me he did not want my game changing just because I was the captain, so he said he was giving me the armband for only three games, which was hard to take. I always thought of the team anyway.
Luckily, in my first game as captain - against Moldova in a qualifier for the 1998 World Cup - I scored in a 3-0 win. That got me it on a full-time basis.
The most important thing to remember with Rooney is that the captaincy would not affect him either. He has got 40 England goals now and has 95 international caps. Being made captain would not change his way of playing, or his way of thinking. He is ready for that role.
You are definitely under more pressure when you are captain, but I loved it. I'm sure Gerrard does, too. Top players love that kind of intensity.
Wayne Rooney speaks to Roy Hodgson
Rooney has captained England twice, most recently against San Marino in October 2012
Rooney ready for responsibility
In my career, nothing topped captaining my country. Wearing that armband and being the first to walk out at Wembley in front of 80,000 people is an amazing feeling.
My job involved everything from managing the morale of my team-mates and being their mouthpiece when dealing with the manager, to being an ambassador for the Football Association.
Wayne Rooney England facts
Rooney became the youngest player to play for England when he appeared in a friendly against Australia on 12 February, 2003. He was 17 years and 111 days old, a record which Theo Walcott has since lowered by 36 days.
On 6 September, 2003, Rooney became England's youngest goalscorer when he netted in a 2-1 European Championship qualification win over Macedonia.
On 11 October 2013, Rooney became England's highest scorer in competitive games, breaking Michael Owen's record of 26 goals when he opened the scoring in a 4-1 World Cup qualification win over Montenegro.
Rooney's goal in the 2-1 World Cup loss against Uruguay was his 40th in internationals, making him England's fourth-highest scorer alongside Owen.
I had to represent England in the right way at all times, but, more importantly, I had to deliver on the pitch, too, because the captain is the one that everybody looks to.
If things aren't going well, you are the man who has to change something and you feel you have to be the stand-out player in every game.
In that respect, Rooney is already ready. He has to put up with that kind of pressure pretty much every time he plays for England anyway.
Steven Gerrard handing over the captain's armband to Frank Lampard
Gerrard has captained England 40 times over the past decade
When is it time to hand over the armband?
Gerrard is right to take his time and think about his England future because deciding it is all over is a hugely difficult decision to make.
It ripped my heart out having to give up the England captaincy and end my international career after the 2000 European Championship.
But I felt I could not play at the level people expected and - more importantly - that I demanded from myself.
It would have affected my performances for club or country if I had kept on playing for both - and that is what Gerrard, 34, must consider now.
He will have to look at Liverpool's schedule next season, when he will be playing on Tuesday or Wednesday virtually every week without getting a rest because of the club's Champions League commitments.
Steven Gerrard England facts
Gerrard made his England debut in May 2000 and has won 114 caps
He played at Euro 2000, 2004 and 2012 and the 2006, 2010 and 2014 World Cups
The Liverpool skipper has scored 21 goals for his country
He was named permanent England captain by Roy Hodgson in May 2012
Only he can say how much he thinks that will affect him and his ability to impact on matches.
By not playing for England, I got another six years out of my career, playing at a level everyone was happy with, including myself.
I had seriously injured both my knees, one of my ankles and had lost half a yard of pace, so, for me, it was the right decision, but it was not an easy one. It hurt like hell.
It would have been great if I had gone on playing another four or five years for my country and played in more major tournaments, but I knew my body better than anybody.
Steven Gerrard through the ages
Gerrard's England career has spanned 14 years and he must now decide if will add to his 114 caps
Should Gerrard say goodbye to England?
It would not surprise me if Gerrard made the same decision I did.
The Gerrard I saw in Brazil was not the brilliant player I saw performing for Liverpool last season, bossing the midfield. At this World Cup, he has looked short of pace.
If he does decide now is the time to end his international career after 114 caps, then it would have been great for him to bow out on the back of some great performances and great results, with the country on a high. That was the ideal script, but sometimes life is not ideal.
Play media
Jump media playerMedia player helpOut of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.
BBC pundits say England need to move forward after World Cup exit
Euro 2000 in Belgium and the Netherlands was my final major tournament and, sadly, I did not go out in a blaze of glory either. Just like at this World Cup, England failed to get out of their group and my last game was a 3-2 defeat by Romania.
Those were Gerrard's first finals, when he had just turned 20. Over the past 14 years, I don't think he could have given any more for his country's cause.
Whatever happens next, he will be remembered as a phenomenal player, a warrior who played through injuries and someone who gave absolutely everything he had. He should not have any regrets.
Things might not have worked out for England as well as he wanted, but nobody can complain that he has not given his all.
Alan Shearer was talking to BBC Sport's Chris Bevan in Rio.
World Cup 2014: Brazil's tattooed players start national trend
By Camilla Costa and Stephen Fottrell
BBC World Service
Brazil's Neymar celebrates with Luiz Gustavo and Dani Alves after scoring against Cameroon
The current squad is regarded as the most heavily tattooed to represent Brazil at a World Cup
Continue reading the main story
Related Stories
World Cup: Cameroon 1-4 Brazil
Brazil 0-0 Mexico
Neymar delight at dream Brazil start
Whether or not they win the World Cup, the current squad of Brazilian players have already left their mark on a nation that scrutinises and emulates their every move.
The squad of players assembled by coach Luiz Felipe Scolari is widely regarded as the most heavily tattooed to represent Brazil at a World Cup.
Out of 23 players, 17 have tattoos on display - a trend that is quickly catching on among fanatical supporters.
Tattoo artists say requests for body art sported by Dani Alves, Marcelo, Neymar and their tattooed teammates has increased during the World Cup.
A devoted fan of Brazil's star striker, Neymar, Alessandro Corradini, 19, has copied five of his tattoos - all slightly modified and adapted by the same artist who inked the Brazilian player.
Neymar getting a tattoo 
Neymar broke a Brazilian taboo regarding tattoos, according to his tattooist
"I like Neymar's style, but my tattoos are personal. I don't think I will regret getting them," Mr Corradini told BBC Brasil.
"I've seen fans who have tattooed his name on their mouths and other crazy things. I'm a huge fan, but I'd never do that."
Son of an Italian father and a Brazilian mother, Mr Corradini discovered Neymar in 2010 when his mother took him to a Santos match - the club where Brazil's poster-boy made his name.
Mr Corradini went on to play football himself and is currently pursuing a professional career in Italy.
Jump media playerMedia player helpOut of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.
Alessandro Corradini says he's a fan of Neymar's style
He is considering moving back to Brazil for good in order to be closer to his mother and to meet his idol. "It's my dream," he says. "We play in the same position, so I keep watching his videos, trying to mimic his moves and his goals. But it's not easy."
Sao Paulo tattoo artist Akemi Higashi, who has tattooed footballers, including Brazilian striker Alexandre Pato and Chilean midfielder Jorge Valdivia, says the increased popularity of tattoos among footballers comes from a desire to express "gratitude" through body art.
She also attributes the trend to the heavily tattooed David Beckham. "Footballers are still asking for shaded drawings, just like Beckham's," she says.
"Before him, you didn't really see tattoos on footballers. He opened the door."
Neymar fan Alessandro Corradini getting another copy of one of his idol's tattoos
Neymar fan Alessandro Corradini has copied five of his idol's tattoos - all done by the striker's tattooist
As the fashion spread among footballers, social media further fuelled fans' desire to copy their idols' body art, according to Adao Rosa, Neymar's tattooist, who is based in Santos.
"It has certainly increased during the World Cup, but every time I tattoo a player who is in the spotlight like Neymar, I get emails from fans all over the country asking for that drawing. As soon as he posts it on Instagram, it becomes a trend."
Neymar also changed attitudes to tattooing in Brazil, according to Mr Rosa, particularly when he got a drawing of hands united in prayer with the word "faith".
"He broke a taboo, because he is so high profile," Mr Rosa says.
Santos tattooist Adao Rosa with Neymar
Santos tattooist Adao Rosa receives requests from all over Brazil to copy the footballers' tattoos
"When Neymar started getting tattoos, Brazilians still regarded it as something you did in prison.
"Now people know he is a good boy, a religious boy, so they like his tattoos."
Other Brazilian players also prefer religious motifs and tributes to family members.
"That started because usually they are young when they decide they want tattoos and their parents don't like the idea. So they get their parents' names tattooed on their bodies to put an end to their prejudice," Mr Rosa says.
Mr Corradini used the same strategy to convince his mother - tattooing her name on his body first. His other tattoos are based on those of his idol.
On the back of his left arm, Mr Rosa tattooed a cross with a crown and a parchment, similar to Neymar's.
Written on his drawing, however, are his own grandmother's name and date of birth. The word "blessed" - carried by Neymar on his back - came next.
"It was his idea but I've made it personal," says Mr Corradini. "The drawing was in tribute to my grandma. She is very religious and always tells me I'm blessed."
World Cup 2014: Lionel Messi 'is from Jupiter', says Nigeria coach
Nigeria coach Stephen Keshi said Lionel Messi "is from Jupiter" after the Argentina forward scored twice in their 3-2 win over the African nation.
The 27-year-old scored a half-volley and a free-kick as Argentina recorded a third win to finish top of Group F.
"Messi is one of heck of a player. He's blessed. You can't take it away from him," said Keshi, whose Nigeria side still qualified despite the defeat.
"There are good calibre players in the team but Messi is from Jupiter."
Play media
Argentina goalscorers Lionel Messi (left) and Marcos Rojo (right) celebrate with Angel Di Maria
World Cup 2014: Nigeria 2-3 Argentina highlights
Keshi, whose team advanced to the last 16 of the World Cup after Iran lost to Bosnia-Hercegovina, added: "I feel honoured and happy it's going our way, I want to thank the players and the fans and some of the media."
Messi is now joint top scorer at the 2014 tournament with four goals, alongside Brazil's Neymar. Prior to Brazil 2014, he had scored just once in eight World Cup matches.
The Barcelona star paid tribute to Nigeria, who equalised twice through Ahmed Musa before Marcos Roja scored a second-half winner for the two-time champions.
"We played against a team that wanted to play," Messi said. "I think we saw a good Argentina. We need to continue on this path."
Messi had previously only scored one World Cup goal in 571 minutes, but former England striker Gary Lineker believes he is now comparable to Argentine compatriot Diego Maradona.
Maradona inspired Argentina to their 1986 World Cup triumph, scoring twice to eliminate Lineker and his England team-mates in the quarter-finals.
"I don't think since Maradona we've seen anyone quite like Messi on the field," said the Match of the Day presenter.
Messi's scoring record
Barcelona
381 goals in 466 matches
Argentina
44 goals in 91 games
"They're very similar players in many ways: both have that mercurial left foot, balance, precision, the ability to beat players very easily and make the game look simple.
"And he scores goals as well. Diego was an unbelievable player, certainly the best of my generation, and he was unbelievably creative, he could do all those sort of things, but he wasn't as prolific as Messi is, he didn't score quite as many goals."
The South American side will now play Switzerland in the last 16, while Nigeria will face France.
"As we advance we start improving our structure, in general I saw improvement today," said Argentina coach Alejandro Sabella.
"We've got nine points, but we can always get better."
World Cup 2014: Japan coach Alberto Zaccheroni resigns
Alberto Zaccheroni has quit as Japan coach after his side failed to reach the last 16 at the 2014 Fifa World Cup.
The Italian, 61, who replaced Takeshi Okada in 2010, had said originally he would wait until he returned to Japan before considering his future.
Zaccheroni's side finished bottom of Group C and collected just one point.
They only managed to score twice in three games, losing 2-1 to Ivory Coast, drawing 0-0 with Greece and then going down 4-1 against Colombia on Tuesday.
Under Zaccheroni, Japan won the AFC Asian Cup in 2011, beating Australia 1-0 in the final in Qatar.
Argentina and Nigeria both qualified for the last 16 of the World Cup despite two Lionel Messi goals condemning the African side to a 3-2 defeat in their final group game.
The Barcelona forward netted a fierce opener, but Ahmed Musa equalised within 80 seconds with a curling finish.
Lionel Messi stats graphic
Messi made it 2-1 before the break with a 25-yard free-kick, but Musa grabbed his second after bursting through.
Marcos Rojo scored Argentina's winner, knocking in a corner with a knee.
The result means Argentina finish top of Group F with three wins from three games, while Nigeria qualify in second with four points after Iran failed to defeat Bosnia-Hercegovina.
Nigeria will face France in the last 16 in Brasilia next Monday, while Argentina take on Switzerland a day later in Sao Paulo.
They progressed after another goal-laden World Cup match.
It only took three minutes for the deadlock to be broken as Messi smashed home after Angel Di Maria's effort came off a post.
The celebrations had barely died down when Nigeria levelled. Midfielder Michel Babatunde - who was later stretchered off with a wrist injury - fed the ball into the left side of the area for Musa, who shifted to his right before curling in.
Play media
Lionel Messi puts Argentina back into the lead from a set piece
Messi curls free-kick past Nigeria
It was the first time in World Cup history that two opposing teams had both scored inside the first five minutes.
The forwards on show continued to expose the fragility of both defences, but it was not until stoppage time in the first half that the next goal arrived.
Messi, who moments earlier drew an exceptional save from Vincent Enyeama with a free-kick, struck a set-piece over the wall and beyond the reach of the Lille goalkeeper.
It was the 27-year-old's fourth goal in three matches at Brazil 2014, having scored just once in his first eight World Cup appearances.
Match facts
Messi has scored 10 times in his past eight appearances for Argentina
This is the second time Argentina have conceded in the opening five minutes of a World Cup match since 1966
Musa is the first Nigeria player to score twice in a World Cup match
Nigeria knew Bosnia-Hercegovina had taken an early lead against Iran, the African team's rivals for qualification, but they did not sit back and were level again within two minutes of the restart.
Musa was the goalscorer again, the CSKA Moscow forward playing a one-two Emmanuel Emenike before slotting the ball past Sergio Romero.
Argentina pressed once more, with Di Maria twice forcing Enyeama to make good stops. But the Nigeria goalkeeper was beaten when defender Rojo used his knee to convert a corner from the left.
A desperate Di Maria was thwarted again by Enyeama in the closing moments, as the match ended in the same thrilling manner in which it began.
Argentina's Lionel Messi scores the first goal against Nigeria 
Messi (second from right) scored his third goal in three World Cup games
Ahmed Musa equalises
Musa, out of shot, equalised for Nigeria only 80 seconds after Argentina's opener
Argentina's Lionel Messi scores from a free-kick 
Messi gave Enyeama little chance with his free-kick
Ahmed Musa (centre) celebrates his second goal
Musa (centre) scored two goals from only two shots
Argentina"s Marcos Rojo (left) 
Rojo scored his fFrance could not maintain their prolific start to the 2014 Fifa World Cup but still finished top of Group E following a goalless draw with Ecuador which eliminates the South Americans.
Antoine Griezmann, Paul Pogba, Karim Benzema and Loic Remy went close as the much-changed French were frustrated by an Ecuador side who had captain Antonio Valencia sent off.
But after impressive victories over Honduras and Switzerland, a point was enough to send Les Blues through to the last 16 and a meeting with Nigeria in Brasilia on Monday.
Analysis
Image of Juninho  
Juninho
World Cup-winning former Brazil midfielder
"I was disappointed at the Ecuador attitude. They are famous for their character and courage but they didn't show that. They stuck with two lines of four and didn't really have a go.
"I don't think France can win the World Cup the way they played today. I don't think they are my favourites, there are better teams in the tournament."
Although the full-time whistle was met with jeers by sections of a crowd baying for more goals from a tournament that has already delivered so many, France looked perfectly content.
Didier Deschamps made six changes to his starting line-up and, while France lacked a finishing touch, they looked no less organised or physically imposing than in their previous two games.
With Bacary Sagna, Laurent Koscielny, Morgan Schneiderlin and Paul Pogba among those to come in, Les Bleus illustrated a strength in depth that could prove vital in the knockout stages.
The danger France pose going forward - constantly interchanging attacking positions and pressing high up the pitch - has led many to install them as title contenders and the way they controlled possession, probed for a breakthough and defended as a team was impressive.
But they seemed to be playing within themselves and clear-cut openings were scarce. Pogba's header was tipped over the bar by Alexander Dominguez and Moussa Sissoko volleyed straight at the goalkeeper, before Enner Valencia drew a sharp save from Hugo Lloris at the other end.
Key facts
Only against Paraguay in 1998 (36) have France made more crosses from open play in a single World Cup game (32 tonight; since 1966)
France's last two World Cup clashes with South American teams have ended 0-0
The match became more stretched after half-time and Griezmann's volley was pushed on to a post by Dominguez before Manchester United winger Antonio Valencia was dismissed for a late challenge on Lucas Digne.
Ecuador responded positively, Cristhian Noboa wasting a glorious opportunity after Enner Valencia's break, but France then showed more energy and cranked up the pressure.
Pogba had a powerful drive blocked, Blaise Matuidi was denied by Dominguez after a neat exchange with Benzema and Pogba somehow missed with a free header from close range.
Lloris was forced to repel Alex Ibarra's strike before Dominguez thwarted Benzema, who linked well with substitute Olivier Giroud but could not score his 10th goal in nine international appearances.
Giroud, fellow replacement Loic Remy and Pogba all tried to force a winner, only for Ecuador to hold the 1998 champions to a stalemate that will give them little cause for concern.
France coach Didier Deschamps: "I'm satisfied, we have finished first in our group, we are qualified for the knockout round and all is well.
"My team selection was not by chance and it's important that all players get into the rhythm. Now we have five days to prepare for our game against Nigeria.
"Ecuador had a team with 10 players in front of us defending well, we had an enormous number of chances and we are disappointed we were not as effective as in our previous matches.
"Some people thought we were the kings of the world after beating Switzerland but Ecuador showed they have qualities, and Argentina had a difficult match against Nigeria."
Ecuador coach Reinaldo Rueda: "It is quite unfortunate everything that happened. I am very respectful of the referees and these issues are water under the bridge - there is nothing to be done.
"We lost an important man and we suffered from it. It's quite unfortunate some of the decisions made by the referee did not favour us but that's in the hands of the people who have to analyse the performance of the referee.
"This has been a short tournament for us, we paid the price for that first match when we lost against Switzerland."
Ecuador captain Antonio Valencia was red carded during the game against France for this challenge on Lucas Digne
Antonio Valencia is the first man to be sent off for Ecuador at the World Cup
France defender Lucas Digne lays on the ground after a challenge from Ecuador's Antonio Valencia
There have been red cards shown in five of France's last seven World Cup matches
Ecuador captain Antonio Valencia is red carded during the game against France
Antonio Valencia has been sent off in two of his last four games for Ecuadorirst goal for Argentina in the second half