Blood everywhere. Nightmarish splashes and gory pools. Wild streaks across the floor and walls.
Except the walls arenÅft walls. IÅfm surrounded on all four sides by webs. Millions of strands, thicker than
my arm, some connecting in orderly designs, others running chaotically apart. Many of the strands are
stained with blood. Behind the layer of webs, more layers?banks of them stretching back as far as I can
see. Infinite.
My eyes snap from the walls. I make quick, mental thumbnails of other details. Numb. Functioning like a
machine.
The dripping sound?a body hanging upside down from the webby ceiling in the centre of the room. No
head. Blood drops to the floor from the gaping red O of the neck. Even without the head, I recognise him.
ÅgDAD!Åh I scream, and the cry almost rips my vocal chords apart.
To my left, an obscene creature spins round and snarls. It has the body of a very large dog, the head of a
crocodile. Beneath it, motionless?Mum. Or whatÅfs left of her.
A dreadful howl to my right. Gret! Sitting on the floor, staring at me, weaving sideways, her face white,
except where itÅfs smeared with blood. I start to call to her. She half-turns and I realise that sheÅfs been
split in two. SomethingÅfs behind her, in the cavity at the back, moving her like a hand-puppet.
The ÅesomethingÅf pushes Gret away. ItÅfs a child, but no child of this world. It has the body of a
three-year-old, with a head much larger than any normal personÅfs. Pale green skin. No eyes?a small ball
of fire flickers in each of its empty sockets. No hair?yet its head is alive with movement. As the hell-child
advances, I see that the objects are cockroaches. Living. Feeding on its rotten flesh.
The crocodile-dog moves away from Mum and also closes in on me, exchanging glances with the
monstrous child, whoÅfs narrowing the gap.
I canÅft move. Fear has seized me completely. I look from Mum to Dad to Gret. All red. All dead.
Impossible! This isnÅft happening! A bad dream?it must be!
But even in my very worst nightmare, I never imagined anything like this. I know that itÅfs real, simply
because itÅfs too awful not to be.
The creatures are almost upon me. The croc-dog growls hungrily. The hell-child grins ghoulishly and
raises its hands?there are mouths in both its palms, small, full of sharp teeth. No tongues.
ÅgOh dear,Åh someone says, and the creatures stop within spitting distance. ÅgWhat have we here?Åh
A man slides out from behind a clump of webby strands. Thin. Pale red skin, misshapen, lumpy, as
though made out of coloured dough. His hands are mangled, bones sticking out of the skin, one finger
melting into another. Bald. Strange eyes?no white, just a dark red iris and an even darker pupil. ThereÅfs
a gaping, jagged hole in the left side of his chest. I can look clean through it. Inside the hole?snakes.
Dozens of tiny, hissing, coiled serpents, with long curved fangs.
The hell-child shrieks and reaches towards me. The teeth in its small mouths are eagerly snapping open
and shut.
ÅgStop, Artery,Åh the man?the monster?says commandingly, and steps towards me. NoÅc he doesnÅft
stepÅc he glides. He has no feet. The lumpy flesh of his lower legs ends in sharp strips which donÅft touch
the floor. HeÅfs hovering in the air.
The croc-dog barks savagely, its reptilian eyes alive with hunger and hate.
ÅgHold, Vein,Åh the monster orders. He advances to within touching distance of me. Stops and studies me
with his unnatural red eyes. He has a small mouth. White lips. He looks sad?the saddest creature IÅfve
ever seen.
ÅgYou are Grubitsch,Åh he says morosely. ÅgThe last of the Gradys. You should not be here. Your parents
wished to spare you this heartache. Why did you come?Åh
I canÅft answer. My body isnÅft my own, except my eyes, which donÅft stop roaming and analysing, even
though I want them to?easier to shut off completely and black everything out.
The hell-child makes a guttural sound and reaches for me again.
ÅgDisobey me at your peril, Artery,Åh the monster says softly. The barbaric baby drops its hands and shuffles
backwards, the fire in its eyes dimming. The croc-dog retreats too. Both keep their sights on me.
ÅgSuch sadness,Åh the monster sighs, and thereÅfs genuine pity in his tone. ÅgParents?dead. Sister?dead.
All alone in the world. Face to face with demons. No idea who we are or why weÅfre here.Åh He pauses and
doubt crosses his expression. ÅgYou donÅft know, do you, Grubitsch? Nobody ever explained, or told you
the story of lonely Lord Loss?Åh
I still canÅft answer, but he reads the ignorance in my eyes and smiles thinly, painfully. ÅgI thought not,Åh he
says. ÅgThey sought to protect you from the cruelties of the world. Good, loving parents. YouÅfll miss them,
Grubitsch?but not for long.Åh The creatures to my left and right make sick, chuckling sounds. ÅgYour sorrow
shall be short-lived. Within minutes IÅfll set my familiars upon you and all will soon finish. There will be pain
great pain?but then the total peace of the beyond. Death will come as a blessing, Grubitsch. You will
welcome it in the end?as your parents and sister did.Åh
The monster drifts around me. I realise he has no nose, just two large holes above his upper lip. He sniffs
as he passes, and I somehow understand that heÅfs smelling my fear.
ÅgPoor Grubitsch,Åh he murmurs, stopping in front of me again. This close, I can see that his red skin is
broken by tiny cracks, seeping with drops of blood. I also notice several appendages beneath his
arms?three on either side, folded around his stomach. They look like thin, extra arms, though they might
just be oddly moulded layers of flesh.
ÅgWh-whÅc whatÅc areÅc you?Åh I moan, forcing the words out between my chattering teeth.
ÅgThe beginning and end of your greatest sorrows,Åh the monster replies. He says it plainly?not a boast.
ÅgMu-Mum?Åh I gasp. ÅgDad? Gr-GrÅc GrÅcÅh
ÅgGone,Åh he whispers, shaking his head, blood oozing from the cracks in his neck. ÅgRemember them,
Grubitsch. Recall the golden memories. Cherish them in these, your final moments. Cry for them,
Grubitsch. Give me your tears.Åh
He smiles eagerly and his right hand reaches for my face. He brushes his mashed-together fingers
across my left cheek, just beneath my eye, as though trying to charm tears from me.
The touch of his skin?moist, rough, sticky?repels me. Without thinking, I turn my back on the hell of my
parentsÅf bedroom and run. Behind me, the monster chuckles darkly, clears his throat and says, ÅgVein.
Artery. He is yours.Åh
With vile, vicious howls of delight, the creatures give chase.
The landing. Growls and grinding teeth getting closer every second. Almost upon me. My legs slip. I
sprawl to the floor. Something flies overhead and collides with the wall at the top of the stairs?the
croc-dog, Vein.
A tiny hand snags on my left ankle. ArteryÅfs teeth close on the turn-ups of my jeans. I pull away
instinctively. Ripping?a long strip of material torn clean away. No damage to my leg. Artery rolls
backwards, choking on the denim.
Vein scrambles to its feet, shaking its elongated crocodileÅfs head. My eyes fix on its legs. They donÅft end
in dogÅfs paws, but in tiny human hands, with long, blood-stained, splintered nails?a womanÅfs.
I wriggle past Vein on my stomach and drag myself down the stairs, gasping with terror. Out of the corner
of my eye I spy Artery spitting out the denim, jumping to his feet, rushing after me.
Vein crouches at the top of the stairs, reptilian eyes furious, readying itself?herself?to pounce. Just as
she leaps, Artery crashes into her. Vein yelps as her companion accidentally crushes her against the wall.
Artery wails like a baby, kicks Vein out of the way, and totters down the stairs in pursuit of me.
My hands hit the floor. I lurch to my feet and start for the front door. IÅfve a good lead on Artery, whoÅfs still
on the stairs. IÅfm going to make it! A few more strides andÅc
Something brushes between my legs at an incredible speed. ThereÅfs a sharp clattering sound. The door
shakes. At its base, Artery rights himself and grins at me. The grotesque hell-child is rubbing his right
shoulder, where he collided with the door. The fire in his eyes burns brighter than ever. His mouth is wide
and twisted. No tongue?just a gaping, blood-red maw.
I scream incoherently at Artery, then grab the telephone from its stand?the closest object to hand?and
lob it with all my strength at the demon. Artery ducks sharply. Unbelievably, the telephone smashes
through the door, ending up in the street outside.
IÅfve no time to ponder this impossible feat of strength. ArteryÅfs momentarily disorientated. VeinÅfs only
halfway down the stairs. I can escape?if I act quickly.
Making a sharp turn, I dive for the kitchen and the back door. Artery reads my intentions and bellows at
Vein. The croc-dog leaps from the stairs and sails for my face and throat. I bring up an arm and swat her
away. VeinÅfs nails catch on my arm, rip through the material of my shirt and make three deep gouges in
the flesh of my forearm.
Yelling with pain, I kick out at the demonÅfs crocodile head. My foot hits it just beneath the tip of its snout.
VeinÅfs head snaps back and she tumbles away with a grunt.
I donÅft stop to check on Artery. I burst through to the kitchen and throw myself at the door. My fingers
tighten on the handle. I twist?the wrong way! Reverse the movement. A click. The door opensÅc
Åc and slams shut again as Artery rams it. The force of the demon banging into the door knocks me
aside. I roll out of harmÅfs immediate way. When I sit up, Artery has recovered and is standing in front of
the door, legs and arms spread, three sets of teeth glinting in the glow of the red light cast by the fire of
his eyeless sockets.
I back away on my knees from the green-skinned hell-child. Stop?growling to my rear. A panicked
glance. Vein closing in, blocking my retreat.
IÅfm caught between them.
ArteryÅfs smiling. He knows IÅfm finished. A cockroach topples from his head, lands on its back, rights itself.
It starts to scuttle away. Artery steps on the roach and crushes it. Holds his foot up to me, so that I can
see the insectÅfs smeared remains. Laughs evilly.
A snapping sound behind me. The stench of blood and decay. Vein almost upon me. Artery hisses?he
wants to join in the bloodshed, but heÅfs wary. WonÅft desert his post. Better to stay and watch Vein kill me
than go for the kill himself and leave the door unguarded. I sense the demonÅfs fear of the one upstairs.
He called these two his familiars?that means heÅfs their master.
Vein butts me in the back with her leathery snout. Growls throatily. ItÅfs over. IÅfm finished. Dead, like Mum
and Dad andÅc
ÅgNo!Åh I roar, startling the demons. My thoughts flash on the telephone smashing through the sturdy wood
of the front door, and Artery and the speed with which he moved. My eyes fix on the dog flap. Much too
small to fit through, but I donÅft think of that. I focus only on escape.
I bring my legs up. Come to a half-crouch. Propel myself at the dog flap as Vein snaps for me with her
teeth. I fly through the air, faster than any human should or could. The fire in ArteryÅfs sockets flares with
alarm. The demon snaps his tiny legs together. Too late! Before they close, IÅfm through, fingers pushing
the dog flap up out of the way, arms, body and legs following. Shrieks and howls behind. But they canÅft
harm me now. IÅfm flyingÅc outsideÅc free!
Soaring. Arms spread like wings. Exhilaration. Magic. Momentary delight. I feel invincible, like a?
Smash!
The backyard fence cuts short my flight. I hit the ground hard. Come up groaning and wheezing. Right
elbow cut where I rocketed off the rough wood of the fence. Woozy. I stagger to my feet. Feel sick.
I remember the demons. My eyes snap to the dog flap. I turn to runÅc
Åcthen stop. No sign of them. Ordinary night silence.
They arenÅft following.
I stare at the dog flap?tiny?then at my arms and legs. The three red ravines gouged out by Vein. My
shirt and jeans ripped from where the demons snagged me. My left shoe missing?it must have come off
mid-flight. But otherwise IÅfm unharmed.
No way! Even if the dog flap had been bigger, I couldnÅft have dived through it at that speed without
scraping myself raw. How didÅc?
All questions die unvoiced as I recall the horror show of the bedroom.
ÅgMum,Åh I sob, staggering towards the back door. I pause with my hand on the handle. Almost turn it.
CanÅft.
I get down on my knees. Cautiously poke open the dog flap. Peer into the kitchen. No demons?but the
many bloody prints on the tiles are proof I didnÅft imagine the chase.
On my feet. Again I try to enter. Again I canÅft bring myself to do it. Memories too terrifying. The demons
too threatening. If I could help my family, perhaps it would be different. But theyÅfre dead, all of them, and I
have too much sense (or not enough courage) to risk my life for a trio of corpses.
Stepping back from the door, I stare up at the house. It looks like all the others from the outside. No webs.
No blood. Normal walls and windows.
ÅgGret,Åh I mutter mindlessly. ÅgI never said sorry for the rat guts.Åh
I think about that for a moment, stunned, sluggish. Then I raise my face, open my mouth and scream.
ItÅfs a wordless scream. Pure hatred. Pure sorrow. It builds from somewhere deep within me and bursts
forth with the same impossible force I summoned when lobbing the telephone at Artery and diving
through the dog flap.
The glass in the windows shatters and explodes inwards, ripping curtains to shreds, littering floors with
jagged, transparent shards. The glass in the houses to either side also explodes. And in the nearby cars
and street lamps.
I scream as long as I can?perhaps a full minute without pause?then lapse into a silence as
all-encompassing as the scream. ItÅfs an isolated silence. Almost solid. No sounds trickle out and none
penetrate.
After a while people emerge from the neighbouring houses, shaken, making their cautious way to the
source of the insane howl. I see their mouths moving, but I donÅft hear their questions, or their cries when
they enter my house and come racing out shortly after, faces white, eyes filled with terror.
IÅfm in a world of my own. A world of webs and blood. Demons and corpses. Nightmares and terror. The
name of the world from this night on?home.
Lost, spiralling time. Muddled happenings. Flitting in and out of reality. Momentarily here, then gone,
reclaimed by madness and demons.
Clarity. A warm room. Police officers. IÅfm wrapped in blankets. A man with a kind face offers me a mug of
hot chocolate. I take it. HeÅfs asking questions. His words sail over and through me. Staring into the dark
liquid of the mug, I begin to fade out of reality. To avoid the return to nightmares, I lift my head and focus
on his moving lips.
For a long time?nothing. Then whispers. They grow. Like turning up the volume on the TV. Not all his
words make sense?thereÅfs a roaring sound inside my head?but I get his general drift. HeÅfs asking
about the murders.
ÅgDemons,Åh I mutter, my first utterance since my soul-wrenching cry.
His face lights up and he snaps forward. More questions. Quicker than before. Louder. More urgent.
Amidst the babble, I hear him ask, ÅgDid you see them?Åh
ÅgYes,Åh I croak. ÅgDemons.Åh
He frowns. Asks something else. I tune out. The world flames at the edges. A ball of madness condenses
around me, trapping me, devouring me, cutting off all but the nightmares.
A different room. Different officers. More demanding than the last one. Not as gentle. Asking questions
loudly, facing me directly, holding my head up until our eyes meet and they have my attention. One holds
up a photograph?red, a body torn down the middle.
ÅgGret,Åh I moan.
ÅgI know itÅfs hard,Åh an officer says, sympathy mixed with impatience, Ågbut did you see who killed her?Åh
ÅgDemons,Åh I sigh.
ÅgDemons donÅft exist, Grubbs,Åh the officer growls. ÅgYouÅfre old enough to know that. Look, I know itÅfs hard,Åh
he repeats himself, Ågbut you have to focus. You have to help us find the people who did this.Åh
ÅgYouÅfre our only witness, Grubbs,Åh his colleague murmurs. ÅgYou saw them. Nobody else did. We know
you donÅft want to think about it right now, but you have to. For your parents. For Gret.Åh
The other cop waves the photo in my face again. ÅgGive us something?anything!Åh he pleads. ÅgHow many
were there? Did you see their faces or were they wearing masks? How much of it did you witness? Can
youÅcÅh
Fading. Bye-bye officers. Hello horror.
Screaming. Deafening cries. Looking around, wondering whoÅfs making such a racket and why they arenÅft
being silenced. Then I realise itÅfs me screaming.
In a white room. Hands bound by a tight white jacket. IÅfve never seen a real one before, but I know what it
is?a straitjacket.
I focus on making the screams stop and they slowly die away to a whimper. I donÅft know how long IÅfve
been roaring, but my throatÅfs dry and painful, as though IÅfve been testing its limits for weeks without
pause.
ThereÅfs a hard plastic mug set in a holder on a small table to my left. A straw sticks out of it, I ease my
lips around the head of the straw and swallow. Flat Coke. It hurts going down, but after a couple of
mouthfuls itÅfs wonderful.
Refreshed, I study my cell. Padded walls. Dim lights. A steel door with a strong plastic panel in the upper
half, instead of glass.
I stumble to the panel and stare out. CanÅft see much?the area beyond is dark, so the plasticÅfs mostly
reflective. I study my face in the makeshift mirror. My eyes arenÅft my own?bloodshot, wild, rimmed with
black circles. Lips bitten to tatters. Scratches on my face?self-inflicted. Hair cut short, tighter than IÅfd like.
A large purple bruise on my forehead.
A face pops up close on the other side of the glass. I fall backwards with fright. The door opens and a
large, smiling woman enters. ÅgItÅfs OK,Åh she says softly. ÅgMy nameÅfs Leah. IÅfve been looking after you.Åh
ÅgWh-whÅc where am I?Åh I gasp.
ÅgSomeplace safe,Åh she replies. She bends and touches the bruise on my forehead with two soft, gentle
fingers. ÅgYouÅfve been through hell, but youÅfre OK now. ItÅfs all uphill from here. Now that youÅfve snapped
out of your delirium, we can work onÅcÅh
I lose track of what LeahÅfs saying. Behind her, in the doorway, I imagine a pair of demons?Vein and
Artery. The sane part of me knows they arenÅft real, just visions, but that part of me has no control over my
senses any more. Backing up against one of the padded walls, I stare blankly at the make-believe
demons as they dance around my cell, making crude gestures and mimed threats.
Leah goes on talking. The imaginary Vein and Artery go on dancing. I slip back into the shell of my
nightmares?almost gratefully.
In and out. Quiet moments of reality. Sudden flashes of insanity and terror.
IÅfm being held in an institute for people with problems?thatÅfs all any of my nurses will tell me. No names.
No mingling with the other patients. White rooms. Nurses?Leah, Kelly, Tim, Aleta, Emilia and others, all
nice, all concerned, all unable to coax me back from my nightmares when they strike. Doctors with names
which I donÅft bother memorising. They examine me at regular intervals. Make notes. Ask questions.
What did you see?
What did the killers look like?
Why do you insist on calling them demons?
You know demons arenÅft real. Who are the real killers?
One of them asks if I committed the murders. SheÅfs a grey-haired, sharp-eyed woman. Not as kindly as
the rest. The Åebad doctorÅf to their Åegood doctorsÅf. She presses me harder as the days slip by. Challenges
me. Shows me photos which make me cry.
I start calling her Doctor Slaughter, but only to myself, not out loud. When she comes with her questions
and cold eyes, I open myself to the nightmares?always hovering on the edges, eager to embrace
me?and lose myself to the real world. After a few of these intentional fade-outs, they obviously decide to
abandon the shock tactics and thatÅfs the last I see of Doctor Slaughter.
The murders impossible to forget. Grief and fear tainting my every waking and sleeping moment.
Routines are important, according to my doctors and nurses, who wish to put a stop to my nightmarish
withdrawals. TheyÅfre trying to get me back to real time. They surround me with clocks. Make me wear two
watches. Stress the times at which IÅfm to eat and bathe, exercise and sleep.
Lots of pills and injections. Leah says itÅfs only temporary, to calm me down. Says they donÅft like dosing
patients here. They prefer to talk us through our problems, not make us forget them.
The drugs numb me to the nightmares, but also to everything else. Impossible to feel interest or boredom,
excitement or despair. I wander around the hospital?I have a free run now that IÅfm no longer violent?in
a daze, zombiefied, staring at clock faces, counting the seconds until my next pill.
Off the pills. Coming down hard. Screaming fits. Fighting the nurses. Craving numbness. Needing pills!
They ignore my screams and pleas. Leah explains whatÅfs happening. IÅfm on a long-term treatment plan.
The drugs put a stop to the nightmares and anchored me in the real world?step one. Now I have to learn
to function in it as a normal person, free of medicinal depressants?step two.
I try explaining my situation to her?my nightmares wonÅft ever go away, because the demons I saw were
real?but she refuses to listen. Nobody believes me when I talk about the demons. They accept that I was
in the house at the time of the murders, and that I witnessed something dreadful, but they canÅft see
beyond human horrors. They think I imagined the demons to mask the truth. One doctor says itÅfs easier
to believe in demons than evil humans. Says a wicked person is far scarier than a fanciful demon.
Moron! He wouldnÅft say that if heÅfd seen the crocodile-headed Vein or the cockroach-crowned Artery!
Gradual improvement. I lose my craving for drugs and no longer throw fits. But I donÅft progress as quickly
as my doctors anticipated. I keep slipping back into the world of nightmares, losing my grip on reality. I
donÅft talk openly with my nurses and doctors. I donÅft discuss my fears and pains. Sometimes I babble
incoherently and canÅft interpret the words of those around me. Or IÅfll stand staring at a tree or bush
through one of the institute windows all day long, or not get up in the morning, despite the best rousing
efforts of my nurses. IÅfm fighting them. They donÅft believe my story, so they canÅft truly understand me, so
they canÅft really help me. So I fight them. Out of fear and spite.
Somewhere in the middle of the confusion, relatives arrive. The doctors want me to focus on the world
outside this institute. They think the way to do that is to reintroduce me to my family, break down my
sense of overwhelming isolation. I think the plan is for the visitors to fuss over me, so that I want to be
with them, so IÅfll then play ball with the doctors when they start in with the questions.
Aunt KateÅfs the first. She clutches me tight and weeps. Talks about Mum, Dad and Gret non-stop,
recalling all the good times that she can remember. Begs me to let the doctors help me, to talk with them,
so I can get better and go home and live with her. I say nothing, just stare off into space and think about
Dad hanging upside-down. Aunt Kate leaves less than an hour later, still sobbing.
More relatives drop in during the following days and weeks, rounded up by the doctors. Aunts, uncles,
cousins?both sides of the family tree. Some are old acquaintances. Some IÅfve never seen before. I donÅft
respond to any of them. I can tell theyÅfre just like the doctors. They donÅft believe me.
Lots of questions from my carers. Why donÅft I talk to my relatives? Do I like them? Are there others I
prefer? Am I afraid of people? How would I feel about leaving here and staying with one of the
well-wishers for a while?
TheyÅfre trying to ship me out. ItÅfs not that theyÅfre sick of me?just step three on my path to recovery.
Since I wonÅft rally to their calls in here, they hope that a taste of the real world will make me more
receptive. (I havenÅft developed any great insights into the human way of thinking?I know all this because
Leah and the other nurses tell me. They say itÅfs good for me to know what theyÅfre thinking, what their
plans are.)
I do my best to give them what they want?IÅfd love if they could cure me?but itÅfs difficult. The relatives
remind me of what happened. They canÅft act naturally around me. They look at me with
pitying?sometimes fearful expressions. But I try. I listen. I respond.
After much preparation and discussion, I spend a weekend with Uncle Mike and his family. Mike is MumÅfs
younger brother. He has a pretty wife?Rosetta?and three children, two girls and a boy. Gret and I
stayed with them a few times in the past, when Mum and Dad were away on holidays.
They try hard to make me feel welcome. Conor?MikeÅfs son?is ten years old. He shows me his toys and
plays computer games with me. HeÅfs bright and friendly. Talks me through his comics collection and tells
me I can pick out any three issues I like and keep them.
The girls?Lisa and Laura?are seven and six. Gigglish. Not sure why IÅfm here or aware of what
happened to me. But theyÅfre nice. They tell me about school and their friends. They want to know if I have
a girlfriend.
Saturday goes well. I feel MikeÅfs optimism?he thinks this will work, that IÅfll return to my senses and pick
up my life as normal. I try to believe salvation can come that simply, but inside I know IÅfm deluding myself.
Sunday. A stroll in the park. Playing with Lisa and Laura on the swings. Pushing them high. Rosetta close
by, keeping a watchful eye on me. Mike on the roundabout with Conor.
ÅgWant off!Åh Laura shouts. I stop her and she hops to the ground. ÅgLook what I saw!Åh she yells gleefully,
and rushes over to a bush at the side of the swings. I follow. She points to a dead bird?small, young, its
body ripped apart, probably by a cat.
ÅgCool!Åh Lisa gasps, coming up behind.
ÅgNo itÅfs not,Åh Rosetta says, wandering over. ÅgItÅfs sad.Åh
ÅgCan we take it home and bury it?Åh Lisa asks.
ÅgI donÅft know,Åh Rosetta frowns. ÅgIt looks like itÅfs been?Åh
ÅgDemons killed my parents and sister,Åh I interrupt calmly. The girls stare at me with round, wide eyes.
ÅgOne of them ripped my dadÅfs head clean off. Blood was pouring out. Like from a tap.Åh
ÅgGrubitsch, I donÅft think?Åh Rosetta says.
ÅgOne of the demons had the body of a child,Åh I continue, unable to stop. ÅgIt had green skin and no eyes.
Instead of hair, its head was covered with cockroaches.Åh
ÅgThatÅfs enough!Åh Rosetta snaps. ÅgYouÅfre terrifying the girls. I wonÅft?Åh
ÅgThe cockroaches were alive. They were eating the demonÅfs flesh. If IÅfd looked closely enough, IÅfm sure
IÅfd have seen its brains.Åh
Rosetta storms off, Lisa and Laura in tow. LauraÅfs crying.
I gaze sadly at the dead bird. Nightmares gather around me. Imagined demonic chuckles. The last thing I
see in the real world?Mike marching towards me, torn between concern and fury.
The institute. Days?weeks? months??later. Lots of questions.
Why did you say that to the girls?
Do you want to hurt other people?
Are you angry? Sad? Scared?
Would you like to visit somebody else?
I donÅft answer, or else I grunt in response. They donÅft understand. They canÅft. I didnÅft want to scare Lisa
or Laura, or upset Mike and Rosetta. The words came out by themselves. The doctors canÅft help. If I had
an ordinary illness, IÅfm sure they could fix me.
But IÅfve seen demons rip my world to pieces. Nobody believes that, so nobody knows what IÅfm going
through. IÅfm alone. I always will be. ThatÅfs my life now. ThatÅfs just the way it is.
The relatives stop coming. The doctors stop trying. They say theyÅfre giving me time to recover, but I think
they just donÅft know how to handle me. Long periods by myself, walking, reading, thinking. Tired most of
the time. Headaches. Imaginary demons everywhere I look. Hard to keep food down. Growing thin.
Sickly.
The nurses try to rally my spirits. Days out?a circus, theme park, cinemas?and parties in my cell. No
good. Their efforts are wasted on me. I draw into myself more and more. Hardly ever speak. Avoid eye
contact. Fingers twitch and head twists with fear at the slightest alien sound.
Getting worse. Going downhill.
ThereÅfs talk of new pills.