Double history on a Wednesday afternoon?total nightmare! A few minutes ago, I would have said I
couldnft imagine anything worse. But when therefs a knock at the door, and it opens, and I spot my mum
outside, I realise?life can always get worse.
When a parent turns up at school, unexpected, it means one of two things. Either somebody close to you
has been seriously injured or died, or youfre in trouble.
My immediate reaction?please donft let anybody be dead! I think of Dad, Gret, uncles, aunts, cousins. It
could be any of them. Alive and kicking this morning. Now stiff and cold, tongue sticking out, a slab of
dead meat just waiting to be buried. I remember Granfs funeral. The open coffin. Her shining flesh, having
to kiss her forehead, the pain, the tears. Please donft let anyone be dead! Please! Please! Please! Ple?
Then I see Mumfs face, white with rage, and I know shefs here to punish, not comfort.
I groan, roll my eyes and mutter under my breath, gBring on the corpses!h
The headfs office. Me, Mum and Mr. Donnellan. Mumfs ranting and raving about cigarettes. Ifve been
seen smoking behind the bike shed (the oldest cliche in the book!). She wants to know if the headfs
aware of this, of what the pupils in his school are getting up to.
I feel a bit sorry for Mr. Donnellan. He has to sit there, looking like a schoolboy himself, shuffling his feet
and saying he didnft know this was going on and hefll launch an investigation and put a quick end to it.
Liar! Of course he knew. Every school has a smoking area. Thatfs life. Teachers donft approve, but they
turn a blind eye most of the time. Certain kids smoke?fact. Safer to have them smoking at school than
sneaking off the grounds during breaks and at lunch.
Mum knows that too. She must! She was young once, like shefs always reminding me. Kids were no
different in Mumfs time. If she stopped for a minute and thought back, shefd see what a bloody
embarrassment shefs being, I wouldnft mind her having a go at me at home, but you donft march into
school and start laying down the law in the headmasterfs office. Shefs out of order?big time.
But itfs not like I can tell her, is it? I canft pipe up with, gOi! Mother! Youfre disgracing us both, so shut yer
trap!h
I smirk at the thought, and of course thatfs when Mum pauses for the briefest of moments and catches
me. gWhat are you grinning at?h she roars, and then shefs off again?Ifm smoking myself into an early
grave, the schoolfs responsible, what sort of a freak show is Mr. Donnellan running,
la-di-la-di-la-di-bloody-la!
BAWring!
Her rant at schoolfs nothing compared to the one I get at home. Screaming at the top of her lungs, blue
bloody murder. Shefs going to send me off to boarding school?no, military school! See how I like that,
having to get up at dawn each morning and do a hundred press-ups before breakfast. How does that
sound?
gIs breakfast a fry-up or some cereally, yoghurty crap?h is my response, and I know the second itfs out of
my mouth that itfs the wrong thing to say. This isnft the time for the famed Grubbs Grady brand of
cutting-edge humour.
Cue the enraged Mum fireworks. Who do I think I am? Do I know how much they spend on me? What if I
get kicked out of school? Then the clincher, the one mums all over the world love pulling out of the hat?gJust wait till your father gets home!h
Dadfs not as freaked out as Mum, but hefs not happy. He tells me how disappointed he is. Theyfve
warned me so many times about the dangers of smoking, how it destroys peoplefs lungs and gives them
cancer.
gSmokingfs dumb,h he says. Wefre in the kitchen (I havenft been out of it since Mum dragged me home
from school early, except to go to the toilet). gItfs disgusting, antisocial and lethal. Why do it, Grubbs? I
thought you had more sense.h
I shrug wordlessly. Whatfs there to say? Theyfre being unfair. Of course smokingfs dumb. Of course it
gives you cancer. Of course I shouldnft be doing it. But my friends smoke. Itfs cool. You get to hang out
with cool people at lunch and talk about cool things. But only if you smoke. You canft be in if youfre out.
And they know that. Yet here they stand, acting all Gestapo, asking me to account for my actions.
gHow long has he been smoking? Thatfs what I want to know!h Mumfs started referring to me in the third
person since Dad arrived. Ifm beneath direct mention.
gYes,h Dad says. gHow long, Grubbs?h
gI dunno.h
gWeeks? Months? Longer?h
gA few months maybe. But only a couple a day.h
gIf he says a couple, he means at least five or six,h Mum snorts.
gNo, I donft!h I shout. gI mean a couple!h
gDonft raise your voice to me!h Mum roars back.
gEasy,h Dad begins, but Mum goes on as if he isnft there.
gDo you think itfs clever? Filling your lungs with rubbish, killing yourself? We didnft bring you up to watch
you give yourself cancer! We donft need this, certainly not at this time, not when?h
gEnough!h Dad shouts, and we both jump. Dad almost never shouts. He usually gets very quiet when hefs
angry. Now his face is red and hefs glaring?but at both of us, not just me.
Mum coughs, as if shefs embarrassed. She sits, brushes her hair back off her face and looks at me with
wounded eyes. I hate when she pulls a face like this. Itfs impossible to look at her straight or argue.
gI want you to stop, Grubbs,h Dad says, back in control now. gWefre not going to punish you?h Mum
starts to object, but Dad silences her with a curt wave of his hand g?but I want your word that youfll stop.
I know it wonft be easy. I know your friends will give you a hard time. But this is important. Some things
matter more than looking cool. Will you promise, Grubbs?h He pauses. gOf course, thatfs if youfre able to
quitc
gOf course Ifm able,h I mutter. gIfm not addicted or anything.h
gThen will you? For your sake?not ours?h
I shrug, trying to act like itfs no big thing, like I was planning to stop anyway. gSure, if youfre going to
make that much of a fuss about it,h I yawn.
Dad smiles. Mum smiles. I smile.
Then Gret walks in the back door and shefs smiling too?but itfs an evil, big-sister-superior smile. gHave
we sorted all our little problems out yet?h she asks, voice high and fake-innocent.
And I know instantly?Gret grassed me up to Mum! She found out I was smoking and she told. The cow!
As she swishes past, beaming like an angel, I burn fiery holes in the back of her head with my eyes, and
a single word echoes through my head like the sound of ungodly thunderc
Revenge!
I love rubbish dumps. You can find all sorts of disgusting stuff there. The perfect place to go browsing if
you want to get even with your annoying traitor of a sister.
I climb over mounds of garbage and root through black bags and soggy cardboard boxes. Ifm not sure
exactly what Ifm going to use, or in what fashion, so I wait for inspiration to strike. Then, in a small plastic
bag, I find six dead rats, necks broken, just starting to rot.
Excellent!
Look out, Gret?here I come!
Eating breakfast at the kitchen table. Radio turned down low. Listening to the noises upstairs. Trying not
to giggle. Waiting for the outburst.
Gretfs in her shower. She showers at least twice a day, before she goes to school and when she gets
back. Sometimes she has one before going to bed too. I donft know why anybody would bother to keep
themselves so clean. I reckon itfs a form of madness.
Because shefs so obsessed with showering, Mum and Dad gave her the en suite bedroom. They figured I
wouldnft mind. And I donft. In fact, itfs perfect. I wouldnft have been able to pull my trick if Gret didnft have
her own shower, with its very own towel rack.
The shower goes off. Splatters, then drips, then silence. I tense with excitement. I know Gretfs routines
inside out. She always pulls her towel down off its rack after shefs showered, not before. I canft hear her
footsteps, but I imagine her taking the three or four steps to the towel rack. Reaching up. Pulling it down.
Aaaaaaaaannndddc
On cue?screams galore. A shocked single scream to start. Then a volley of them, one running into
another. I push my bowl of soggy cornflakes aside and prepare myself for the biggest laugh of the year.
Mum and Dad are by the sink, discussing the day ahead. They go stiff when they hear the screams, then
dash towards the stairs, which I can see from where Ifm sitting.
Gret appears before they reach the stairs. Crashes out of her room, screaming, slapping bloody shreds
from her arms, tearing them from her hair. Shefs covered in red. Towel clutched with one hand over her
front?even terrified out of her wits, therefs no way shefs going to come down naked!
gWhatfs wrong?h Mum shouts. gWhatfs happening?h
gBlood!h Gret screams. gIfm covered in blood! I pulled the towel down! Ich
She stops. Shefs spotted me laughing. Ifm doubled over. Itfs the funniest thing Ifve ever seen.
Mum turns and looks at me. Dad does too. Theyfre speechless.
Gret picks a sticky pink chunk out of her hair, slowly this time, and studies it. gWhat did you put on my
towel?h she asks quietly.
gRat guts!h I howl, pounding the table, crying with laughter. gI gotc rats at the rubbish dumpc chopped
them upc andch I almost get sick, Ifm laughing so much.
Mum stares at me. Dad stares at me. Gret stares at me.
Then?
gYou lousy son of a?!h
I donft catch the rest of the insult?Gret flies down the stairs ahead of it. She drops her towel on the way. I
donft have time to react to that before shefs on me, slapping and scratching at my face.
gWhatfs wrong, Gretelda?h I giggle, fending her off, calling her by the name she hates. She normally calls
me Grubitsch in response, but shefs too mad to think of it now.
gScum!h she shrieks. Then she lunges at me sharply, grabs my jaw, jerks my mouth open and tries her
hardest to stuff a handful of rat guts down my throat.
I stop laughing instantly?a mouthful of rotten rat guts wasnft part of the grand uber-joke! gGet off!h I roar,
lashing out wildly. Mum and Dad suddenly recover and shout at exactly the same time.
gStop that!h
gDonft hit your sister!h
gShefs a lunatic!h I gasp, pushing myself away from the steaming Gret, falling off my chair.
gHefs an animal!h Gret sobs, picking more chunks of guts from her hair, wiping rat blood from her face. I
realise shefs crying?serious waterworks?and her face is as red as her long, straight hair. Not red from
the blood?red from anger, shame andc fear?
Mum picks up the dropped towel, takes it to Gret, wraps it around her. Dadfs just behind them, face as
dark as death. Gret picks more strands and loops of rat guts from her hair, then howls with anguish.
gTheyfre all over me!h she yells, then throws some of the guts at me. gYou bloody little monster!h
gYoufre the one whofs bloody!h I cackle. Gret dives for my throat.
gNo more!h Dad doesnft raise his voice but his tone stops us dead.
Mumfs staring at me with open disgust. Dadfs shooting daggers. I sense that Ifm the only one who sees
the funny side of this.
gIt was just a joke,h I mutter defensively before the accusations fly.
gI hate you!h Gret hisses, then bursts into fresh tears and flees dramatically.
gCal,h Mum says to Dad, freezing me with an ice-cold glare. gTake Grubitsch in hand. Ifm going up to try
and comfort Gretelda.h Mum always calls us by our given names. Shefs the one who picked them, and is
the only person in the world who doesnft see how shudderingly awful they are.
Mum heads upstairs. Dad sighs, walks to the counter, tears off several sheets of kitchen paper and mops
up some of the guts and streaks of blood from the floor. After a couple of silent minutes of this, as I lie
uncertainly by my upturned chair, he turns his steely gaze on me. Lots of sharp lines around his mouth
and eyes?the sign that hefs really angry, even angrier than he was about me smoking.
gYou shouldnft have done that,h he says.
gIt was funny,h I mutter.
gNo,h he barks. gIt wasnft.h
gShe deserved it!h I cry. gShefs done worse to me! She told Mum about me smoking?I know it was her!
And remember the time she melted my lead soldiers? And cut up my comics? And?h
gThere are some things you should never do,h Dad interrupts softly. gThis was wrong. You invaded your
sisterfs privacy, humiliated her, terrified her senseless. And the timing! Youch He pauses and ends with a
fairly weak gcupset her greatly.h He checks his watch. gGet ready for school. Wefll discuss your
punishment later.h
I trudge upstairs miserably, unable to see what all the aggro is about. It was a great joke. I laughed for
hours when I thought of it. And all that hard work?chopping the rats up, mixing in some water to keep
them fresh and make them gooey, getting up early, sneaking into her bathroom while she was asleep,
carefully putting the guts in place?wasted!
I pass Gretfs bedroom and hear her crying pitifully. Mumfs whispering softly to her. My stomach gets hard,
the way it does when I know Ifve done something bad. I ignore it. gI donft care what they say,h I grumble,
kicking open the door to my room and tearing off my pyjamas. gIt was a brilliant joke!h
Purgatory. Confined to my room after school for a month. A whole bloody MONTH! No TV, no computer,
no comics, no books?except schoolbooks. Dad leaves my chess set in the room too?no fear my
chess-mad parents would take that away from me! Chess is almost a religion in this house. Gret and I
were reared on it. While other toddlers were being taught how to put jigsaws together, we were busy
learning the ridiculous rules of chess.
I can come downstairs for meals, and bathroom visits are allowed, but otherwise Ifm a prisoner. I canft
even go out at the weekends.
In solitude, I call Gret every name under the moon the first night. Mum and Dad bear the brunt of my
curses the next. After that Ifm too miserable to blame anyone, so I sulk in moody silence and play chess
against myself to pass the time.
They donft talk to me at meals. The three of them act like Ifm not there. Gret doesnft even glance at me
spitefully and sneer, the way she usually does when Ifm getting the doghouse treatment.
But what have I done thatfs so bad? OK, it was a crude joke and I knew Ifd get into trouble?but their
reactions are waaaaaaay over the top. If Ifd done something to embarrass Gret in public, fair enough, Ifd
take what was coming. But this was a private joke, just between us. They shouldnft be making such a
song and dance about it.
Dadfs words echo back to me?gAnd the timing!h I think about them a lot. And Mumfs, when she was
having a go at me about smoking, just before Dad cut her short?gWe donft need this, certainly not at this
time, not when?h
What did they mean? What were they talking about? What does the timing have to do with anything?
Something stinks here?and itfs not just rat guts.
I spend a lot of time writing. Diary entries, stories, poems. I try drawing a comic?eGrubbs Grady,
Superhero!f?but Ifm no good at art. I get great marks in my other subjects?way better than goat-faced
Gret ever gets, as I often remind her?but Ifve all the artistic talent of a duck.
I play lots of games of chess. Mum and Dad are chess fanatics. Therefs a board in every room and they
play several games most nights, against each other or friends from their chess clubs. They make Gret
and me play too. My earliest memory is of sucking on a white rook while Dad explained how a knight
moves.
I can beat just about anyone my age?Ifve won regional competitions?but Ifm not in the same class as
Mum, Dad or Gret. Gretfs won at national level and can wipe the floor with me nine times out of ten. Ifve
only ever beaten Mum twice in my life. Dad?never.
Itfs been the biggest argument starter all my life. Mum and Dad donft put pressure on me to do well in
school or at other games, but they press me all the time at chess. They make me read chess books and
watch videotaped tournaments. We have long debates over meals and in Dadfs study about legendary
games and grandmasters, and how I can improve. They send me to tutors and keep entering me in
competitions. Ifve argued with them about it?Ifd rather spend my time watching and playing football?but
theyfve always stood firm.
White rook takes black pawn, threatens black queen. Black queen moves to safety. I chase her with my
bishop. Black queen moves again?still in danger. This is childish stuff?I could have cut off the threat
five moves back, when it became apparent?but I donft care. In a petty way, this is me striking back. gYou
take my TV and computer away? Stick me up here on my own? OK?Ifm gonna learn to play the worst
game of chess in the world. See how you like that, Corporal Dad and Commandant Mum!h
Not exactly Luke Skywalker striking back against the evil Empire by blowing up a Death Star, I know, but
hey, wefve all gotta start somewhere!
Studying my hair in the mirror. Stiff, tight, ginger. Dad used to be ginger when he was younger, before the
grey set in. Says he was fifteen or sixteen when he noticed the change. So, if I follow in his footsteps, Ifve
only got a handful or so years of unbroken ginger to look forward to.
I like the idea of a few grey hairs, not a whole head of them like Dad, just a few. And spread out?I donft
want a skunk patch! Ifm big for my age?taller than most of my friends?and burly. I donft look old, but if I
had a few grey hairs, I might be able to pass for an adult in poor light?bluff my way into 18-rated movies!
The door opens. Gret?smiling shyly. Ifm nineteen days into my sentence. Full of hate for Gretelda
Grotesque. Shefs the last person I want to see.
gGet out!h
gI came to make up,h she says.
gToo late,h I snarl nastily. gIfve only got eleven days to go. Ifd rather see them out than kiss yourch I stop.
Shefs holding out a plastic bag. Something white inside. gWhatfs that?h I ask suspiciously.
gA present to make up for getting you grounded,h she says, and lays it on my bed. She glances out of the
window. The curtains are open. A three-quarters moon lights up the sill. There are some chess pieces on
it, from when I was playing earlier. Gret shivers, then turns away.
gMum and Dad said you can come out?the punishmentfs over. Theyfve ended it early.h
She leaves.
Bewildered, I tear open the plastic. Inside?a Tottenham Hotspur shirt, shorts and socks. Ifm stunned.
The Super Spurs are my team, my football champions. Mum used to buy me their latest kit at the start of
every season, until I hit puberty and sprouted.
She wonft buy me any new kits until I stop growing?I out-grew the last one in just a month.
This must have cost Gret a fortune?itfs the brand new kit, not last seasonfs. This is the first time shefs
ever given me a present, except at Christmas and birthdays. And Mum and Dad have never cut short a
grounding before?theyfre very strict about making us stick to any punishment they set.
What the hell is going on?
Three days after my early release. To say things are strange is the understatement of the decade. The
atmospherefs just like it was when Gran died. Mum and Dad wander around like robots, not saying much.
Gret mopes in her room or in the kitchen, stuffing herself with sweets and playing chess nonstop. Shefs
like an addict. Itfs bizarre.
I want to ask them about it, but how? gMum, Dad?have aliens taken over your bodies? Is somebody
dead and youfre too afraid to tell me? Have you all converted to Miseryism?h
Seriously, jokes aside, Ifm frightened. Theyfre sharing a secret, something bad, and keeping me out of it.
Why? Is it to do with me? Do they know something that I donft? Like maybec maybec
(Go on?have the guts! Say it!)
Like maybe Ifm going to die?
Stupid? An overreaction? Reading too much into it? Perhaps. But they cut short my punishment. Gret
gave me a present. They look like theyfre about to burst into tears at any given minute.
Grubbs Grady?on his way out? A deadly disease I caught on holiday? A brain defect Ifve had since
birth? The big, bad cancer bug?
What other explanation is there?
gRegale me with your thoughts on ballet.h
Ifm watching football highlights. Alone in the TV room with Dad. I cock my ear at the weird,
out-of-nowhere question and shrug. gRubbish,h I snort.
gYou donft think itfs an incredibly beautiful art form? Youfve never wished to experience it first-hand? You
donft want to glide across Swan Lake or get sweet with a Nutcracker?h
I choke on a laugh. gIs this a wind-up?h Dad smiles. gJust wanted to check. I got a great offer on tickets to
a performance tomorrow. I bought three?anticipating your less than enthusiastic reaction?but I could
probably get an extra one if you want to tag along.h
gNo way!h
gYour loss.h Dad clears his throat. gThe balletfs out of town and finishes quite late. It will be easier for us to
stay in a hotel overnight.h
gDoes that mean Ifll have the house to myself?h I ask excitedly.
gNo such luck,h he chuckles. gI think youfre old enough to guard the fort, but Sharonch Mum gchas a
different view, and shefs the boss. Youfll have to stay with Aunt Kate.h
gNot no-date Kate,h I groan. Aunt Katefs only a couple of years older than Mum, but lives like a
ninety-year-old. Has a black-and-white TV but only turns it on for the news. Listens to radio the rest of the
time. gCouldnft I kill myself instead?h I quip.
gDonft make jokes like that!h Dad snaps with unexpected venom. I stare at him, hurt, and he forces a thin
smile. gSorry. Hard day at the office. Ifll arrange it with Kate, then.h
He stumbles as he exits?as if hefs nervous. For a minute there it was like normal, me and Dad messing
about, and I forgot all my recent worries. Now they come flooding back. If Ifm not for the chop, why was
he so upset at my throwaway gag?
Curious and afraid, I slink to the door and eavesdrop as he phones Aunt Kate and clears my stay with
her. Nothing suspicious in their conversation. He doesnft talk about me as if these are my final days. Even
hangs up with a cheery gToodle-piph, a corny phrase he often uses on the phone. Ifm about to withdraw
and catch up with the football action when I hear Gret speaking softly from the stairs.
gHe didnft want to come?h
gNo,h Dad whispers back.
gItfs all set?h
gYes. Hefll stay with Kate. Itfll just be the three of us.h
gCouldnft we wait until next month?h
gBest to do it now?itfs too dangerous to put off.h
gIfm scared, Dad.h
gI know, love. So am I.h
Silence.
Mum drops me off at Aunt Katefs. They exchange some small talk on the doorstep, but Mumfs in a rush
and cuts the chat short. Says she has to hurry or theyfll be late for the ballet. Aunt Kate buys that, but Ifve
cracked their cover story. I donft know what Mum and co are up to tonight, but theyfre not going to watch
a load of poseurs in tights jumping around like puppets.
gBe good for your aunt,h Mum says, tweaking the hairs of my fringe.
gEnjoy the ballet,h I reply, smiling hollowly.
Mum hugs me, then kisses me. I canft remember the last time she kissed me. Therefs something
desperate about it.
gI love you, Grubitsch!h she croaks, almost sobbing.
If I hadnft already known something was very, very wrong, the dread in her voice would have tipped me
off.
Prepared for it, Ifm able to grin and flip back at her, Humphrey Bogart style, gLove you too, shweetheart.h
Mum drives away. I think shefs crying.
gMake yourself comfy in the living room,h Aunt Kate simpers. gIfll fix a nice pot of tea for us. Itfs almost
time for the news.h
I make an excuse after the news. Sore stomach?need to rest. Aunt Kate makes me gulp down two large
spoons of cod-liver oil, then sends me up to bed.
I wait five minutes, until I hear Frank Sinatra crooning?no-date Kate loves Olf Blue Eyes and always
manages to find him on the radio. When I hear her singing along to some corny ballad, I slip downstairs
and out the front door.
I donft know whatfs going on, but now that I know Ifm not set to go toes-up, Ifm determined to see it
through with them. I donft care what sort of a mess theyfre in. I wonft let Mum, Dad and Gret freeze me
out, no matter how bad it is. Wefre a family. We should face things together. Thatfs what Mum and Dad
always taught me.
Padding through the streets, covering the six kilometres home as quickly as I can. They could be
anywhere, but Ifll start with the house. If I donft find them there, Ifll look for clues to where they might be.
I think of Dad saying hefs scared. Mum trembling as she kissed me. Gretfs voice when she was on the
stairs.
My stomach tightens with fear. I ignore it, jog at a steady pace, and try spitting the taste of cod-liver oil out
of my mouth.
Home. I spot a chink of light in Mum and Dadfs bedroom, where the curtains just fail to meet. It doesnft
mean theyfre in?Mum always leaves a light on to deter burglars. I slip around the back and peer through
the garage window. The carfs parked inside. So theyfre here. This is where it all kicks off. Whatever eitf is.
I creep up to the back door. Crouch, poke the dog flap open, listen for sounds. None. I was eight when
our last dog died. Mum said she was never allowing another one inside the house?they always got killed
on the roads and she was sick of burying them. Every few months, Dad says he must board over the dog
flap or get a new door, but he never has. I think hefs still secretly hoping shefll change her mind. Dad
loves dogs.
When I was a baby, I could crawl through the flap. Mum had to keep me tied to the kitchen table to stop
me sneaking out of the house when she wasnft looking. Much too big for it now, so I fish under the
pyramid-shaped stone to the left of the door and locate the spare key.
The kitchenfs cold. It shouldnft be?the sunfs been shining all day and itfs a nice warm night?but itfs like
standing in a refrigerator aisle in a supermarket.
I creep to the hall door and stop, again listening for sounds. None.
Leaving the kitchen, I check the TV room, Mumfs fancily decorated living room?off-limits to Gret and me
except on special occasions?and Dadfs study. Empty. All as cold as the kitchen.
Coming out of the study, I notice something strange and do a double-take. Therefs a chess board in one
corner. Dadfs prize chess set. The pieces are based on characters from the King Arthur legends.
Hand-carved by some famous craftsman in the nineteenth century. Cost a fortune. Dad never told Mum
the exact price?never dared.
I walk to the board. Carved out of marble, ten centimetres thick. I played a game with Dad on its smooth
surface just a few weeks ago. Now itfs scarred by deep, ugly gouges. Almost like fingernail
scratches?except no human could drag their nails through solid marble. And all the carefully crafted
pieces are missing. The boardfs bare.
Up the stairs. Sweating nervously. Fingers clenched tight. My breath comes out as mist before my eyes.
Part of me wants to turn tail and run. I shouldnft be here. I donft need to be here. Nobody would know if I
backed up andc
I flash back to Gretfs face after the rat guts prank. Her tears. Her pain. Her smile when she gave me the
Tottenham kit. We fight all the time, but I love her deep down. And not that deep either.
Ifm not going to leave her alone with Mum and Dad to face whatever trouble theyfre in. Like I told myself
earlier?wefre a family. Dadfs always said families should pull together and fight as a team. I want to be
part of this?even though I donft know what ethisf is, even though Mum and Dad did all they could to keep
me out of ethisf, even though ethisf terrifies me senseless.
The landing. Not as cold as downstairs. I try my bedroom, then Gretfs. Empty. Very warm. The chess
pieces on Gretfs board are also missing. Mine havenft been taken, but they lie scattered on the floor and
my board has been smashed to splinters.
I edge closer to Mum and Dadfs room. Ifve known all along that this is where they must be. Delaying the
moment of truth. Gret likes to call me a coward when she wants to hurt me. Big as I am, Ifve always gone
out of my way to avoid fights. I used to think (fear) she might be right. Each step I take towards my
parentsf bedroom proves to my surprise that she was wrong.
The door feels red hot, as though a fire is burning behind it. I press an ear to the wood?if I hear the
crackle of flames, Ifll race straight to the phone and dial 999. But therefs no crackle. No smoke. Just deep,
heavy breathingc and a curious dripping sound.
My handfs on the door knob. My fingers wonft move. I keep my ear pressed to the wood, waitingc
praying. A tear trickles from my left eye. It dries on my cheek from the heat.
Inside the room, somebody giggles?low, throaty, sadistic. Not Mum, Dad or Gret. Therefs a ripping
sound, followed by snaps and crunches.
My hand turns.
The door opens.
Hell is revealed.