A visitor. ItÅfs been a long time since the last. I thought theyÅfd given up.
ItÅfs Uncle Dervish. DadÅfs younger brother. I donÅft know much about him. A man of mystery. He visited us
a few times when I was smaller. Mum never liked him. I recall her and Dad arguing about him once.
ÅgWeÅfre not taking the kids there!Åh she snapped. ÅgI donÅft trust him.Åh
Leah admits Uncle Dervish. Asks if heÅfd like anything to drink or eat. ÅgNo thanks.Åh Would I like anything? I
shake my head. Leah leaves.
Dervish Grady is a thin, lanky man. Bald on top, grey hair at the sides, a tight grey beard. Pale blue eyes.
I remember his eyes from when I was a kid. I thought they looked like my toy soldierÅfs eyes. I asked him if
he was in the army. He laughed.
HeÅfs dressed completely in denim?jeans, shirt, jacket. He looks ridiculous?Gret used to say denim
looks naff on anyone over the age of thirty. She was right.
Dervish sits in the visitorÅfs chair and studies me with cool, serious eyes. HeÅfs immediately different to all
whoÅfve come before. Whereas the other relatives were quick to start a false, cheerful conversation, or cry,
or say how sorry they were, Dervish just sits and stares. That interests me, so I stare back, more alert
than IÅfve been in weeks.
ÅgHello,Åh I say after a full minute of silence.
Dervish nods in reply.
I try thinking of a follow-up line. Nothing comes to mind.
Dervish looks slowly around the room. Stands, walks to the window, gazes out at the rear yard of the
institute, then swings back to the door, which Leah left ajar. He pokes his head out, looks left and right.
Closes the door. Returns to the chair and sits. Unbuttons the top of his denim jacket. Slides out three
sheets of paper. Holds them face down.
I sit upright, intrigued but suspicious. Is this some new ploy of the doctors? Have they fed Dervish a fresh
set of lines and actions, in an attempt to spark my revival?
ÅgI hope this isnÅft a Rorschach test,Åh I grin weakly. ÅgIÅfve had enough inkblots to last me a?Åh
Dervish turns a sheet over and I stop dead. ItÅfs a black-and-white drawing of a large dog with a
crocodileÅfs head and human hands.
ÅgVein,Åh Dervish says. He has a soft, lyrical voice.
I tremble and say nothing in reply.
He turns over the second sheet. Colour this time. A child with green skin. Mouths in its palms. Fire in its
eyes. Lice for hair.
ÅgArtery,Åh Dervish says.
ÅgYou got the hair wrong,Åh I mumble. ÅgIt should be cockroaches.Åh
ÅgLice, cockroaches, leeches?it changes,Åh he says, and lays the two sheets down on the floor. He turns
over the third. This oneÅfs colour too. A thin man, lumpy red skin, large red eyes, mangled hands, no feet,
a snake-filled hole where his heart should be.
ÅgThe doctors put you up to this,Åh I moan, averting my eyes. ÅgI told them about the demons. They must
have got artists to draw them. Why are you?Åh
ÅgYou didnÅft tell them his name,Åh Dervish cuts me short. He taps the picture. ÅgYou said the other two were
familiars, and this one was their master?but you never mentioned his name. Do you know it?Åh
I think back to those few minutes of insanity in my parentsÅf bedroom. The demon lord didnÅft say much.
Never told me who he was. I open my mouth to answer negativelyÅc
Åcthen slowly let it close. No?he did reveal his identity. I canÅft remember when exactly, but somewhere in amongst the madness there was mention of it. I cast my thoughts back. Zone in on the moment. It was
when he asked if I knew why this was happening, if my parents had ever told me the story of?
ÅgLord Loss,Åh Dervish says, a split second before I blurt it out.
I stare at himÅc uncertainÅc terrifiedÅc yet somehow excited.
ÅgI know the demons were real,Åh Dervish murmurs, picking up the pictures and placing them back inside
his jacket, doing up his buttons. He stands. ÅgIf you want to come live with me, you can. But youÅfll have to
sort out the mess youÅfre in first. The doctors say you wonÅft respond to their questions. They say they
know how to help you, but that you wonÅft let them.Åh
ÅgThey donÅft believe me!Åh I cry. ÅgHow can they cure me when they think IÅfm lying about the demons?Åh
ÅgThe worldÅfs a confusing place,Åh Dervish says. ÅgIÅfm sure your parents told you to always tell the truth, and
most of the time thatÅfs good advice. But sometimes you have to lie.Åh He comes over and bends, so his
face is in mine. ÅgThese people want to help you, Grubitsch. And I believe they can. But youÅfre going to
have to help them. YouÅfll have to lie, pretend demons donÅft exist, tell them what they want to hear. You
have to give a little to get a little. Once you remove that barrier, they can go to work on fixing your brain,
on helping you deal with the grief. Then, when theyÅfve done all they can, you can come to me if thatÅfs
what you want?and IÅfll help you with the rest. I can explain about demons. And tell you why your parents
and sister died.Åh
He leaves.
Stunned silence. Long days and nights of heavy thinking. Repeating the name of the thin red demon.
Lord Loss, Lord Loss, Lord Loss, LordÅc
Torn between hope and fear. Could Dervish be in league with the demons? Mum saying, ÅgI donÅft trust
him.Åh IÅfm safe here. Leaving might be an invitation to danger and further sorrow. I wonÅft improve in this
place, holding true to my story, defying the doctors and nurses?but I canÅft be harmed either. Out in the
real world, I might have to face demons again. Simpler to stay here and hide.
One morning I wake from a nightmare. In it, I was at a party, wearing a mask. When I took the mask off, I
realised IÅfd been wearing GretÅfs face.
Sitting up in bed. Shaking. Crying. I stare out the window at the world beyond.
I decide.
Exercising. Eating sensibly. Putting on weight. Talking directly with my doctors and nurses, answering
their questions, letting them into my head, Ågbaring my soulÅh. I allow them to help me. I work with them. Lie
when I have to. Say I saw humans in the room that night. Police come and take my statement. An artist
captures my new, realistic, invented impressions of the murderers. My doctors beam proudly and pat my
back.
Weeks pass. With help and lots of hard work, I get better. Dervish was right. Now that IÅfm working with
them, they are able to help me, even if weÅfre progressing on the basis of a lie?that demons arenÅft real. I
weep a lot and learn a lot?how to face my grief, how to confront my fear and control it?and let them
guide me out of the darkness, slowly, painfully, but surely.
In one afternoon session with a therapist, when I judge the time to be right, I make a request. Lots of
discussions afterwards. Long debates. Staff meetings. Phone calls. Humming and hawing. Finally they
agree.
ThereÅfs a big build-up. Lots of in-depth therapy sessions and heart-to-hearts. Tests galore, to make sure
IÅfm ready, to reassure themselves that theyÅfre doing the right thing. They have doubts. They voice them.
We talk them through. They decide in my favour.
The last day. Handshakes and emergency contact numbers from the doctors in case anything goes
wrong. Kisses and hugs from my favourite nurses. A card from Leah. Facing the door, a bag on my
shoulder with all I have left in the world. Scared sick but determined to see it through.
I leave the institute on the back of a motorbike. Driving?my rescuer, my lifeline, my hope?Uncle
Dervish.
ÅgHold on tight,Åh he says. ÅgSpeed limits were made to be broken.Åh
Vroom!
Dervish drives like a madman, a hundred miles an hour. Howling wind. Blurred countryside. No chance to
talk or study the scenery. I spend the journey with my face pressed between my uncleÅfs shoulder blades,
clinging on for dear life.
Finally, coming to a small village, he slows. I peek and catch the name on a sign as we exit?Carcery
Vale.
ÅgCarkerry Vale,Åh I murmur.
ÅgItÅfs pronounced Car-sherry,Åh Dervish grunts.
ÅgThis is where you live,Åh I note, recalling the address from cards I wrote and sent with Mum and Gret.
(Mum didnÅft like Uncle Dervish but she always sent him a Christmas and birthday card.)
ÅgActually, I live about two miles beyond,Åh Dervish says, carefully overtaking a tractor and waving to the
driver. ÅgItÅfs pretty lonely out where I am, but there are lots of kids in the village. You can walk in any time
you like.Åh
ÅgDo they know about me?Åh I ask.
ÅgOnly that youÅfre an orphan and youÅfre coming to live with me.Åh
A winding road. Lots of potholes which Dervish swerves expertly to avoid. The sides of the road are lined
with trees. They grow close together, blocking out all but the thinnest slivers of sunlight. Dark and cold. I
press closer to Dervish, hugging warmth from him.
ÅgThe trees donÅft stretch back very far,Åh he says. ÅgYou can skirt around them when youÅfre going to the
village.Åh
ÅgIÅfm not afraid,Åh I mutter.
ÅgOf course you are,Åh he chuckles, then looks back quickly. ÅgBut you have my word?youÅfve no need to
be.Åh
Chez Dervish. A huge house. Three storeys. Built from rough white blocks, almost as big as those IÅfve
seen in photos of the pyramids. Shaped like an L. The bit sticking out at the end is made from ordinary
red bricks and doesnÅft look like the rest of the house. Lots of timber decorations around the top and down
the sides. A slate roof with three enormous chimneys. The roof on the brick section is flat and the
chimneyÅfs tiny in comparison with the others. The windows on the lower floor run from the ground to the
ceiling. The windows on the upper floors are smaller, round, and feature stained glass designs. On the
brick section theyÅfre very ordinary.
ÅgItÅfs not much,Åh Dervish says wryly, Ågbut itÅfs home.Åh
ÅgThis place must have cost a fortune!Åh I gasp, standing close to the motorbike, staring at the house,
almost afraid to venture any nearer.
ÅgNot really,Åh Dervish says. ÅgIt was a wreck when I bought it. No roof or windows, the interior destroyed by
exposure to the elements. The lower floor was used by a local farmer to house pigs. I lived in the brick
extension for years while I restored the main building. I keep meaning to tear the extension down?I donÅft
use it any more, and it takes away from the main structure?but I never seem to get round to it.Åh
Dervish removes his helmet, helps me out of mine, then walks me around the outside of the house. He
explains about the original architect and how much work he had to do to make the house habitable again,
but I donÅft listen very closely. IÅfm too busy assessing the mansion and the surrounding terrain?lots of
open fields, sheep and cattle in some of them, a small forest to the west which runs all the way to Carcery
Vale, no neighbouring houses that I can see.
ÅgDo you live here alone?Åh I ask as we return to the front of the house.
ÅgPretty much,Åh Dervish says. ÅgOne farmer owns most of this land, and heÅfs opposed to over-development.
HeÅfs old. I guess his children will sell plots off when he dies. But for the last twenty years IÅfve had all the
peace and seclusion a man could wish for.Åh
ÅgDoesnÅft it get lonely?Åh I ask.
ÅgNo,Åh Dervish says. ÅgIÅfm fairly solitary by nature. When IÅfm in need of company, itÅfs only a short stroll to
the village. And I travel a lot?IÅfve many friends around the globe.Åh
We stop at the giant front doors, a pair of them, like the entrance to a castle. No doorbell?just two
chunky gargoyle-shaped knockers, which I eye apprehensively.
Dervish doesnÅft open the doors. HeÅfs studying me quietly.
ÅgHave you lost the key?Åh I ask.
ÅgWe donÅft have to enter,Åh he says. ÅgI think youÅfll grow to love this place after a while, but itÅfs a lot to take in
at the start. If youÅfd prefer, you could stay in the brick extension?itÅfs an eyesore, but cosy inside. Or we
can drive to the Vale and you can spend a few nights in a B&B until you get your bearings.Åh
ItÅfs tempting. If the house is even half as spooky on the inside as it looks from out here, itÅfs going to be
hard to adapt to. But if I donÅft move in now, IÅfm sure the house will grow far creepier in my imagination
than it can ever be in real life.
ÅgCome on,Åh I grin weakly, lifting one of the gargoyle knockers and rapping loudly. ÅgWe look like a pair of
idiots, standing out here. LetÅfs go in.Åh
Cold inside but brightly lit. No carpets?all tiles or stone floors?but many rugs and mats. No
wallpaper?some of the walls are painted, others just natural stone. Chandeliers in the main hall and
dining room. Wall-set lamps in the other rooms.
Bookcases everywhere, most of them filled. Chess boards too, in every room?Dervish must be as keen
on chess as Mum and Dad. Ancient weapons hang from many of the walls?swords, axes, maces.
ÅgFor when the tax collector calls,Åh Dervish says solemnly, lifting down one of the larger swords. He swings
it over his head and laughs.
ÅgCan I try it?Åh I ask. He hands it to me. ÅgBloody hell!Åh ItÅfs H-E-A-V-Y. I can lift it to thigh level but no higher.
A quick reappraisal of Uncle Dervish?he looks wiry as a rat, but he must have hidden muscles under all
the denim.
We meander through the downstairs rooms, Dervish explaining what each was used for in the past,
pointing out items of special interest, such as a stuffed bearÅfs head which is more than two hundred years
old, a cage where a live vulture was kept, rusty nails which were used by the Romans to crucify people.
ThereÅfs a large, empty fish tank in one of the main living rooms, set against a wall. Dervish pauses at it
and taps the frame with his fingernails. ÅgThe last owner of this place?before it fell into ruin?was a tyrant
called Lord Sheftree. He kept live piranhas in this tank. One day, a woman turned up with a baby?she
claimed it was his, and she wanted money to pay for its upkeep.Åh
Dervish crouches down and stares into the abandoned aquarium, as though itÅfs still full of circling,
multicoloured fish.
ÅgLord Sheftree invited her to stay for the night,Åh he says calmly. ÅgWhile she was sleeping, he crept into her
room and removed her baby. Brought it down here and fed it to the piranhas. Took the bones away and
buried them. The woman raised almighty hell, but search parties couldnÅft find a corpse, and nobody had
seen her arrive with a child?so there was no proof she ever had one. She ranted and raved and was
eventually locked away in a mental asylum. She hanged herself there.
ÅgYears later, when Lord Sheftree was an old man and his mind was wandering, he boasted about the
murder to one of his servants, and told her where the bones were buried. She dug them up and informed
the police. They came to arrest him, but the local villagers got here first. He was discovered chopped up
into tiny pieces?all of which had been dropped into the piranha tank.Åh
Dervish stops and I gaze at him in silent awe.
He stands and faces me. ÅgIÅfm not saying this to scare you,Åh he smiles, Ågbut this house has a long and
bloody history. There are dozens of horror stories, none quite as gruesome as that one, but all of them
pretty gut-churning. I think itÅfs best you hear about its past now, from me.Åh
ÅgIsÅc is the house haunted?Åh I wheeze.
ÅgNo,Åh he answers seriously. ÅgItÅfs safe. I wouldnÅft have brought you here if it wasnÅft. If the nightmares of the
past prove too oppressive, youÅfre free to leave. But youÅfve nothing to fear in the present.Åh
I nod slowly, thinking about Lord Sheftree and his piranha, wondering if I have the courage to spend the
night in a house like this.
ÅgAre you OK?Åh Dervish asks. ÅgWould you like to step outside for fresh air?Åh
ÅgIÅfm fine,Åh I mutter, turning my back on the fish tank, acting like I hear this sort of stuff all the time. ÅgWhatÅfs
upstairs?Åh
Mostly bedrooms on the first floor. All are fully fitted, the beds freshly made, though Dervish says only four
or five of the rooms have been used since he renovated the mansion.
ÅgWhy bother with all the beds then?Åh I ask.
ÅgIf somethingÅfs worth doing, itÅfs worth doing right,Åh he laughs.
Some of the beds are four-posters, imported from foreign countries, with histories as old and macabre as
the house. ItÅfs only when Dervish is telling me about one particular bed, in which a French aristocrat hid
for four months during the Revolution, that I think about how much they must have cost.
ÅgWhat do you do?Åh I ask my uncle. It sounds ridiculous, but I donÅft recall Mum or Dad ever mentioning
DervishÅfs line of work.
ÅgI dabble in antiques,Åh he says. ÅgRare books are my speciality?particularly books regarding the occult.Åh
Dervish looks at me questioningly?we havenÅft mentioned demons since he picked me up at the institute.
HeÅfs offering me the chance to quiz him about them now. But IÅfm not ready to discuss Lord Loss or his
minions yet.
ÅgYou must be good at it, to afford a place like this,Åh I say, sliding away from the larger questions and
issues.
ÅgItÅfs a hobby,Åh he demurs, leading me down a long corridor full of framed portraits and photographs. ÅgThe
moneyÅfs good, but I donÅft worry too much about it.Åh
ÅgThen how do you pay for all this?Åh I ask nosily.
Dervish quickens his pace. I think heÅfs avoiding the question, but then he stops at one of the older
portraits and points at it. ÅgRecognise him?Åh
I study the face of an old man?lined, quite a large nose, but otherwise unspectacular. ÅgIs he famous?Åh I
ask.
ÅgOnly to us,Åh Dervish says. ÅgHe was your great-great-great-grandfather. Bartholomew Garadex. ThatÅfs our
original family name, on our paternal side?it got shortened to Grady around your great-grandfatherÅfs
time.Åh He points to a nearby portrait. ÅgThatÅfs him.Åh Waving a hand at the hall in general, he adds, ÅgTheyÅfre
all part of our family. Garadexes, Gradys, Bells, Moores?if one of our relations has been photographed
or painted, youÅfll most probably find them here.Åh
Returning to the portrait of my great-great-great-grandfather, he says, ÅgBartholomew was a sublimely
clever man. He started with nothing but had amassed a fortune by the time of his death. WeÅfre still living
off of it?at least, I am. Cal preferred to make his own way in the world, and only dipped into the family
coffers in emergencies.Åh
ÅgHow much is left?Åh I enquire.
ÅgQuite a lot,Åh Dervish says vaguely. ÅgYour great-great-grandfather?one of old BartÅfs boys?wasted most
of it. Then his son?the one who changed the family name?restored it. ItÅfs been fairly constant since,
much of it tied up in bonds and properties which yield steady profits.Åh
ÅgWho does it go to whenÅcÅh I stop and blush. ÅgI mean, whoÅfs your heir?Åh
Dervish doesnÅft answer immediately. He gazes at the face in the portrait, as though seeing it for the first
time. Then he looks away and says quietly, ÅgI have no children. IÅfve willed portions of the estate to various
friends and causes. I always meant for the majority of my assets to go to Cal and his kids. Since youÅfre
the only survivorÅcÅh
My stomach tightens?Dervish sounds as if heÅfs accusing me of caring more about money than my
family. ÅgIÅfd swap any amount of a fortune if I could bring Mum and Dad and Gret back,Åh I snarl.
ÅgOf course you would.Åh Dervish frowns, glancing at me oddly, and I realise I was only imagining the
accusation.
ÅgLetÅfs go,Åh Dervish says. ÅgThereÅfs another floor to explore?and a cellar.Åh
ÅgA cellar?Åh I ask nervously.
ÅgYes,Åh he says. ÅgThatÅfs where I bury the bodies.Åh
I freeze, and he has to stop and wink broadly before I catch the joke.
Lots of storage space on the second floor?rooms packed with crates, statues and boxes of books. There
are a couple of small bedrooms, including DervishÅfs, and the centrepiece?his study.
Unlike every other room in the mansion, DervishÅfs study is carpeted and the walls are covered with
leather panels. ItÅfs a colossal room, the size of seven or eight of the bedrooms, with two desks larger than
most of the beds IÅfve seen. There are bookcases, on which small numbers of books are carefully
arranged. He has a PC, a laptop, a typewriter, several writing pads and a multitude of pens. There are
five chess sets in the room, each different; one made entirely of crystal, another with solid gold pieces. A
sword and axe hangs from each wall, their handles encrusted with precious jewels, their blades gleaming
brightly.
ÅgThis is wild,Åh I grin, circling the study, checking out some of the book titles?all to do with ghosts,
werewolves, magic and other occult-related items.
ÅgSome of my rarer finds,Åh Dervish says, picking up a book and smiling as he flicks through it. ÅgThe great
thing about having loads of money is not having to sell to survive.Åh
ÅgArenÅft you afraid of burglars?Åh I ask. ÅgWouldnÅft this stuff be safer in a museum?Åh
ÅgThe contents of this room are protected,Åh he says. ÅgAnyone breaking in is free to plunder the rest of the
house as they please?but they wonÅft take anything from here.Åh
ÅgWhat sort of security system do you use?Åh I ask. ÅgLasers? Heat sensors?Åh
ÅgMagic.Åh
I start to smirk, thinking this is another of his jokes, but his grim expression unnerves me.
ÅgIÅfve cast some of my strongest spells on this room,Åh he says. ÅgAnybody who enters without my
permission will run into serious obstacles. And I donÅft use that phrase lightly.Åh
Dervish sits in the large leather chair behind one of the desks and rocks lightly to the left and right as he
addresses me. ÅgI know thereÅfs nothing as tempting as forbidden fruit, Grubitsch, but IÅfve got to ask you
not to come into this room when IÅfm not here. There are spells I can cast to protect you?and spells I can
teach you when youÅfre ready to learn?but itÅfs safest not to tempt fate.Åh
ÅgAre youÅcÅh I have to wet my lips to continue. ÅgAre you a magician?Åh
ÅgNo,Åh he chuckles. ÅgBut I know many of the ways of magic. Bartholomew Garadex was a
magician?among other things?but there hasnÅft been one in the family since. Real magicians are rare.
You canÅft become one?you have to be born to it. Ordinary people like you and me can study magic and
make it work to an extent, but true magicians have the natural power to change the shape of the world
with a click of their fingers. It wouldnÅft do to have too many people with that kind of power walking around.
Nature limits us to one or two per century.Åh
ÅgIsÅcÅh I hate to say his name out loud, but I must. ÅgIs Lord Loss a magician?Åh
DervishÅfs eyes are dark. ÅgNo. HeÅfs a demon master. HeÅfs as far advanced of magicians as magicians are
of the rest of us.Åh
ÅgWhen IÅc was escapingÅc I used magic.Åh
ÅgTo fit through the dog flap.Åh He nods. ÅgMany of us have magical potential. It usually lies dormant, but the
presence of the demons enabled you to tap into yours. The magic within you reacted to theirs. Without it,
you would have died, along with the others.Åh
I stare wordlessly at Uncle Dervish. He speaks so honestly, so matter of factly, that he could be
explaining a math problem. ThereÅfs so much I want to ask, so many questions. But this isnÅft the time. IÅfm
not ready.
I scratch my head and pluck a long ginger hair from behind my left ear. I rub it between my fingers until it
falls, then face Dervish and grin shakily. ÅgIÅfll agree to stay out of your study if youÅfll do something for me in
return.Åh
ÅgWhat?Åh he asks, and I can tell heÅfs expecting an overbearing request.
ÅgWill you call me ÅeGrubbsÅf? I canÅft stand ÅeGrubitschÅf.Åh
The cellarÅfs full of wine racks and dusty bottles.
ÅgMy other great love, apart from books,Åh Dervish purrs, wiping clean the label of a large green bottle. He
advances, lights flicking on ahead of him as he walks. I wonder if itÅfs magic, until I spot motion-detection
sensors overhead.
ÅgDo you drink wine?Åh he asks, leading me down one of the many rack-lined aisles of the cellar.
ÅgMum and Dad let us have a glass with dinner sometimes, but I donÅft really like it,Åh I answer.
ÅgShocking!Åh he tuts. ÅgIÅfll have to educate your palate. Wine is as varied and unpredictable as people.
There are some vintages you just wonÅft get on with, no matter how famous or popular they are, but youÅfll
always find something you like?if you search hard enough.Åh
He stops, picks out another bottle, appraises and replaces it. ÅgI roam around for hours down here some
days,Åh he sighs. ÅgHalf the pleasure of having such a fine collection is forgetting whatÅfs here and
rediscovering it by accident years later. The choosing of a bottle can be almost as much fun as the
drinking of it.Åh He snorts. ÅgAlmost!Åh
We return to the steps leading up to the kitchen and he pauses. ÅgI have to ask you not to come down here
either,Åh he says. ÅgBut this has nothing to do with spells or magic. The temperature and humidity have to
be maintained just so.Åh He pinches his left thumb and index finger together. ÅgIÅfm fairly easy-going when it
comes to material possessions, but where my wineÅfs concerned IÅfm unbelievably cranky. If you caused
an accidentÅcÅh He shook his head glumly. ÅgI wouldnÅft say much, but IÅfd silently despise you forever.Åh
ÅgIÅfll steer clear,Åh I laugh. ÅgThe off-licence will do for me if I want to go boozing.Åh
Dervish smiles and leads the way up. The lights switch off automatically behind us, plunging the cellar
into cool, precision gloom.
ÅgAnd thatÅfs it.Åh
Back where we started, the main hall, beneath the giant chandelier. Dervish checks his watch. ÅgI usually
have dinner anywhere between five and seven. You can eat with me?IÅfm a nifty little chef, if I do say so
myself?or do your own cooking and feed whenever you like. The freezerÅfs stocked with pizzas and
microwave dinners.Åh
ÅgIÅfll eat with you,Åh I tell him.
ÅgThen IÅfll shout when itÅfs ready. In the meantime, feel free to explore, either inside or out. And
remember?you canÅft come to any harm here.Åh
He heads for the wide set of marble stairs leading to the first and second floors.
ÅgWait!Åh I stop him. ÅgYou never showed me my room.Åh
Dervish slaps his forehead playfully. ÅgYouÅfll get used to that,Åh he chuckles. ÅgIÅfm forever overlooking the
obvious. Well, there are fourteen bedrooms to choose from?any except mine is yours for the taking.Åh
ÅgYou donÅft have a room set aside for me?Åh I ask, surprised.
ÅgI thought about it,Åh he replies, Ågbut I decided to let you choose for yourself. You can test out as many as
you like. If you want to stay on the upper floor, close to me, you can?though the rooms there are quite
modest compared to those on the first floor.Åh
He tips an imaginary hat to me, then trots up the stairs to his study.
Standing alone in the vast hall. The house creaks around me. I shiver, then recall Uncle DervishÅfs promise?I canÅft come to any harm here. I shake off the creeps before they have a chance to take hold.
Picking up my bag, which I dropped by the front doors when we came in, I climb the ornate stairs and go
searching among the beautifully kept, expansive array of rooms for one that I can dump my gear in and
call my own.