Friday. Listening to CDs I bought in the Vale. A roaring outside, of a motorbike approaching. But it isnÅft
Dervish?heÅfs up in his study. I creep to the window and secretly watch the cyclist dismounting. A woman
dressed in black leather. Long blonde hair tumbles down over her shoulders when she removes her
helmet. She stretches, hands going high above her head. Ay carumba! IÅfm down the stairs in a flash, but
not as fast as Dervish. HeÅfs already opening the front doors. I catch a glimpse of a big smile. Then heÅfs
shouting, ÅgMeera! I wasnÅft expecting you for another few days. Why didnÅft you phone?Åh
ÅgYou never answer,Åh the woman says, meeting Dervish in the doorway, hugging him hard. She pushes
him away and studies his face. ÅgHowÅfs it going, hon?Åh
ÅgNot bad,Åh Dervish chuckles.
ÅgHowÅfs the lodger?Åh She spots me over DervishÅfs shoulder. ÅgOh, never mind, IÅfll ask him myself.Åh She
strides over and offers her hand. I shake it politely. ÅgMeera Flame,Åh she introduces herself. She
smiles?dazzling. ÅgAnd if I know Dervish, he hasnÅft told you a thing about me, right?Åh
I nod dumbly. I think IÅfm in love!
ÅgGrubbs Grady?Meera Flame,Åh Dervish says. ÅgMeeraÅfs a close friend of mine. She comes to stay quite
regularly. I meant to tell you she was on her way, but I forgot.Åh
ÅgHeÅfs useless, isnÅft he?Åh Meera laughs.
ÅgAt some things,Åh I mutter, finding my voice at last.
Meera unzips the front of her leather jacket, revealing a T-shirt with an anti-war slogan. She slides out of
the coat, then sits on the stairs and peels off her boots and trousers. SheÅfs wearing shorts underneath.
ÅgMake yourself at home,Åh Dervish says wryly.
ÅgDonÅft I always?Åh Meera replies. She catches me ogling her, and winks. ÅgGot a girlfriend, Grubbs? If not,
watch out! I like younger men!Åh I blush like a fire engine. Meera slips through to the kitchen for a drink.
Dervish laughs. ÅgYou look like a kettle.Åh
I frown. ÅgWhat do you mean?Åh
ÅgThereÅfs steam coming out your ears!Åh
Before I can think of a comeback, Meera calls from the kitchen. ÅgWhoops! IÅfve spilt milk all over my
T-shirt. Can you come and help me out of it, Grubbsy?Åh
I think lifeÅfs about to get very interesting!
ÅgAh,Åh says Bill-E with a cheetahÅfs smile. ÅgThe mysterious Meera Flame. SheÅfs hot, isnÅft she?Åh
ÅgAnd doesnÅft she know it!Åh I huff. ÅgShe hasnÅft stopped flirting with me since she arrived. My cheeks feel
like theyÅfve been slapped a dozen times today!Åh
WeÅfre in the kitchen, guzzling milk shakes. Dervish and Meera have gone out for dinner.
ÅgDonÅft worry about that,Åh Bill-E says. ÅgShe does it with me too. She likes making men?and boys!?blush.Åh
ÅgSheÅfs doing a good job of it,Åh I mutter, then cough. ÅgHer and DervishÅc are theyÅc?Åh
ÅgNah,Åh Bill-E says. ÅgJust friends. She travels around a lot. Always off somewhere exotic. Comes to stay
every now and then. They go on biking holidays together sometimes, but Dervish says they arenÅft an
item, and I donÅft think heÅfd lie. Who could keep quiet if they had a girlfriend like that!Åh
* * * * *
Saturday. Meera woke me up this morning for breakfast in bed. Walked right in, wearing a dressing gown
and (as far as my imaginationÅfs concerned!) nothing underneath. Sat chatting with me while I ate, asking
about life with Dervish and what I thought of Carcery Vale?ÅgBoring as hell, isnÅft it?Åh?and just being
all-round beautiful. I had a hard time keeping my eyes on my toast and fried eggs.
Bill-E came early to see Meera. She fussed over him like a mother hen. ÅgYouÅfve grown! YouÅfre filling out!
Becoming a man! When are you going to sweep me off my feet and take me away from all this?Åh
Dervish and Meera made for his study after a while, so Bill-E and I headed out to explore the nearby
forest. Searching for Lord SheftreeÅfs buried treasure.
ÅgIf we find it, we donÅft tell anyone,Åh Bill-E says, poking through the roots of an old dead oak. ÅgWe wait until
weÅfre older and know more about these things. Then we sell it on the quiet and split the profits fifty-fifty.
Agreed?Åh
ÅgMaybe IÅfll bump you off and take it all for myself,Åh I smirk.
ÅgWonÅft work,Åh he says seriously. ÅgI keep a diary. If I die, Gran and Grandad Spleen will find it, read about
us digging for the treasure, and put two and two together.Åh
ÅgYou think of everything, donÅft you?Åh I laugh.
ÅgI try to,Åh he says immodestly. ÅgI get it from Dervish and our chess games. HeÅfs always nagging me to
maximise my potential and use my brain more.Åh
ÅgWhat is it with him and chess?Åh I ask. ÅgMy mum and dad were the same, like it was the most important
thing in the world.Åh
ÅgI donÅft know about your mum,Åh Bill-E says, Ågbut itÅfs a family tradition on your dadÅfs side. Seven or eight of
the clan have been grandmasters. When Dervish talks about his ancestors, he often makes mention of
the great chess players. He even judges people by their ability on the board. I asked him about one of his
relatives once, a girl who died about thirty years ago?she looked interesting in her photo and I wanted to
know what she was like. He just grunted and said she wasnÅft very good at chess. ThatÅfs all he had to say
about her.Åh
Bill-E decides the treasure isnÅft buried under the tree. Picking up our tools?an axe and a spade?we go
in search of other likely spots.
ÅgHow often do you come searching for this treasure?Åh I ask.
ÅgIt depends on the weather,Åh he answers. ÅgIn summer, when itÅfs hot and the evenings are long, I maybe
come out three or four times a month. Perhaps only once a month in winter.Åh
ÅgDonÅft you have any friends?Åh I enquire bluntly?IÅfve noticed he doesnÅft talk much about other kids, unless
heÅfs chatting about school. And he always has plenty of time for visiting Dervish and me. He never says
he canÅft come or has to dash off early to see another friend.
ÅgNot many,Åh he says honestly. ÅgIÅfve mates in class, but I donÅft see much of them outside of school. Gran
and Grandad Spleen like to keep me tucked up safe and snug indoors, which is part of the problem. I like
hanging out with Dervish, which is another part. I guess mostly IÅfm just odd, not very good at making
friends.Åh
ÅgYou made friends with me pretty easily,Åh I remind him.
ÅgBut youÅfre like me,Åh he says. ÅgAn outsider. Different. A freak. WeÅfre both weird, which is why we get
along.Åh
IÅfm not sure I like the sound of that?IÅfve never thought of myself as a freak?but itÅfd be childish to stamp
my foot and shout something like, ÅgIÅfm not weird!Åh So I let it ride and follow Bill-E deeper into the woods.
In the middle of a thicket. Picking a spot to clear, where we can excavate. I find a patch of soft earth
between two stones. I start to dig and earth crumbles away. It looks like thereÅfs a hole here. Probably an
animalÅfs den, but maybe, just maybeÅc
ÅgI think this might?Åh I begin.
ÅgSsshh!Åh IÅfm cut short.
Bill-E presses his fingers to his lips?silence. He crouches low. I follow suit. I can tell by his intent
expression that this isnÅft a game. My heart beats faster. I grip my axe tightly. Flashback to that room, that
night. Terror starts to dig its claws in deep.
ÅgI smell him,Åh Bill-E whispers. ÅgIf he spots us, laugh and act as if we were trying to surprise him. If he
doesnÅft, keep down until I tell you.Åh
ÅgWho is it?Åh I hiss. Bill-E waves the question away and concentrates on the trees beyond the thicket.
Ten seconds pass. Twenty. Thirty. IÅfm counting inside my head, the way I do when IÅfm swimming and
trying to hold my breath underwater. Thinking?if itÅfs them, should I run or try to fight?
Sixty-nine, seventy, seventy-oneÅc a pair of feet. Trainers. Lime green sports socks. I stifle a laugh. ItÅfs
only Dervish! The terror passes and my heartbeat slows. I make a note to myself to give Bill-E a thumping
later for scaring me like that.
Bill-E stays low as Dervish pads past the thicket and moves on through the trees beyond. Then he
wriggles out as quietly as possible and gets to his feet, gazing after the departed Dervish.
ÅgWhat was that about?Åh I ask, standing, wiping myself down.
ÅgLetÅfs follow him,Åh Bill-E says.
ÅgWhy?Åh I get a thought. ÅgYou donÅft think heÅfs going to meet Meera out here, do you?Åh I grin slyly and
nudge his ribs with an elbow.
Bill-E glares. ÅgDonÅft be stupid!Åh he snaps. ÅgJust trust me, OK?Åh Before I can respond, he slips away in
pursuit of Dervish, like an Indian tracker. I lag along a few paces behind, bemused, wondering what this
silly gameÅfs in aid of and where itÅfs leading.
Several minutes later. Hot on DervishÅfs trail. Bill-E keeps his prey in sight, but is careful not to give himself
away. He moves with surprising stealth. I feel like a clumsy bull behind him.
Dervish stops and stoops. Bill-E catches his breath, reaches back and drags me up beside him. ÅgCan you
see?Åh he whispers.
ÅgI can see his head and shoulders,Åh I grunt in return, squinting. No sign of Meera, worse luck!
ÅgWatch his hands when he rises.Åh
I do as Bill-E commands. Moments later my uncle stands, holding something stiff and red. I get a clearer
view of it as he turns to the left?a dead fox, its body ripped apart.
Dervish produces a plastic bag. Drops the fox into it. Studies the ground around him. Moves on.
Bill-E waits a couple of minutes before advancing to the spot where Dervish found the fox. The ground is
stained with blood and a few scraps of fur and guts.
ÅgThe blood hasnÅft thickened,Åh Bill-E notes, poking a red pool with a twig, holding it up as though judging
the quality of the blood. ÅgThe fox must have been killed last night or early this morning.Åh
ÅgSo what?Åh I ask, bewildered. ÅgA dead fox?big deal!Åh
ÅgIÅfve seen Dervish collect others like that,Åh Bill-E says quietly. ÅgThereÅfs an incinerator on the far side of the
Vale. Dervish has a key to it. He takes the corpses there and burns them when nobodyÅfs about.Åh
ÅgThe most hygienic disposal method,Åh I note.
ÅgDervish doesnÅft believe in interfering with nature,Åh Bill-E disagrees. ÅgHe says corpses are an important
part of the food chain, that we should leave dead creatures where we find them?unless theyÅfre likely to cause a public nuisance.Åh
ÅgWhatÅfs all this about?Åh I ask edgily.
Bill-E doesnÅft answer. He stares at the forest floor, thinking, then turns sharply and beckons. ÅgFollow me,Åh
he snaps, breaking into a jog, and IÅfve no option other than to run after him.
A clearing by a stream. Beautiful afternoon sun. I lie down and soak it up while Bill-E drags a large black
plastic bag out from under a bush.
ÅgIÅfve collected these over the last three months,Åh he says, untying a knot in the bagÅfs top. ÅgI saw Dervish
removing a couple of bodies during the months before that, and thought IÅfd keep an eye out for corpses
and grab hold of them before he did.Åh
He finishes with the knot, clutches the bottom of the bag and spills the contents out. A swarm of flies rises
in the air. The stench is disgusting.
ÅgWhat theÅc!Åh I cough, covering my mouth and nose with my hands, eyes watering.
Lots of bones and scraps of flesh at Bill-EÅfs feet. He separates them carefully with a large stick. ÅgA
badger,Åh he says, pointing to one of the rotting carcasses. ÅgA hedgehog. A swan. A?Åh
ÅgWhat the hell is this crap?Åh I interrupt angrily. ÅgThat stench is enough to knock?Åh
ÅgI didnÅft know why I felt I had to hold on to them,Åh Bill-E says softly, eyes on the putrid corpses. He looks
up at me. ÅgNow I know?to show them to you.Åh
I stare back uncertainly. This feels very wrong. If Bill-E was trying to gross me out, I could
understand?even appreciate?the joke. But thereÅfs no laughter in his eyes. No grisly delight in his
expression.
ÅgNot you personally,Åh he continues, looking back to the animals. ÅgBut part of me must have wanted to
show them to somebody. It was just a matter of time until the right person came along.Åh
ÅgBill-E,Åh I mutter, ÅgyouÅfre freaking me out big-time.Åh
ÅgCome closer,Åh he says.
I study his expression. Then the spade lying close to him on the ground. I take a firm grip on my axe.
Walk a few steps towards him. Stop short of easy reach.
ÅgLook at them,Åh he says, pointing to the animals.
Like the fox Dervish found, their bodies have been ripped open. Heads and limbs are missing or chewed
to pieces. I flash back to images of Dad hanging from the ceiling.
ÅgIÅfm going to be sick,Åh I moan, turning aside.
ÅgThese havenÅft been killed by animals,Åh Bill-E says. I pause. ÅgLook at the way their stomachs have been
ripped apart?jaggedly, but up the middle. And the bite marks donÅft correspond to any predators I know
of. If this was the work of a wolf or bear, the marks would be wider spaced, and larger, because of the
size of their jaws.Åh
ÅgThere arenÅft any wolves or bears around here,Åh I frown.
ÅgI know. But I had to assume that it could have been a bear or wolf?or a wild dog?until I was able to
examine the corpses in closer detail. I didnÅft leap to any conclusions.Åh
ÅgBut youÅfve come to some since,Åh I note wryly. ÅgSo hit me with it. What do you think did this?Åh
ÅgIÅfm not sure,Åh Bill-E says evenly. ÅgBut IÅfve checked out the teeth marks in the best biology books and web
sites that I could find. As near as I could match them, they seem to belong to an ape?Åh
ÅgYouÅfre not telling me itÅfs King Kong!Åh I whoop.
Åg?or a human,Åh Bill-E finishes.
Cold, eerie silence.
* * * * *
DervishÅfs study. Bill-E leads me in. IÅfm not sure where Dervish is, but his bike isnÅft outside, so heÅfs not
home. MeeraÅfs bike is gone too.
ÅgWe shouldnÅft be here,Åh I whisper anxiously. ÅgDervish said this room is magically protected.Åh
ÅgI know,Åh Bill-E replies. He steps in front of me, spreads his arms and chants. I donÅft know what language
heÅfs using, but the words are long and lyrical. He turns as he chants, eyes closed, concentrating.
Bill-E stops and opens his eyes. ÅgSafe,Åh he grunts.
ÅgYouÅfre sure?Åh
ÅgDervish taught me that spell years ago. He updates it every so often, when he alters the protective spells
of the house. ItÅfll probably be one of the first spells he teaches you when he decides youÅfre ready to
learn.Åh
I feel uncomfortable, especially since I promised Dervish that I wouldnÅft come in here without him. But
thereÅfs no stopping Bill-E, and IÅfm too curious to back out now.
ÅgWhat are we looking for?Åh I ask, following him to one of the bookshelves. He came here directly from the
clearing, without saying anything more about the dead animals heÅfd collected.
ÅgThis,Åh Bill-E says, lifting a large, untitled book down from one of the shelves over DervishÅfs PC. He lays it
on the desk but doesnÅft open it.
ÅgDemons killed your parents and sister,Åh he murmurs. My insides freeze. He looks up. ÅgWe inhabit a world
of magic. My proposal would make an ordinary person laugh scornfully. But weÅfre not ordinary. WeÅfre
Gradys, descendants of the magician Bartholomew Garadex. Remember that.Åh
He opens the book. Creamy, crinkled pages. Handwriting. I try reading a few paragraphs but the letters
are indecipherable?squiggles and swirls.
ÅgIs that Latin, Greek, one of those old languages?Åh I ask.
ÅgItÅfs English,Åh Bill-E says.
ÅgCoded?Åh
He half-smiles. ÅgKind of. Dervish cast a reading spell on it. The words are written clearly, but we canÅft
interpret them without unravelling the spell.Åh
Bill-E turns to the first page and runs a finger over the title at the top. ÅgLycanthropy through the ages,Åh he
intones.
ÅgHow do you know that if you canÅft break the spell?Åh I challenge him.
ÅgDervish read it out to me once.Åh He looks at me archly. ÅgDo you know what ÅelycanthropyÅf means?Åh
ÅgOf course!Åh I huff. ÅgIÅfve seen werewolf movies!Åh
Bill-E nods. ÅgDervish read bits of it to me. They were all to do with werewolf legends and rules. HeÅfs
fascinated by werewolves?lots of his books focus on shape-changers.Åh
Bill-E flicks to near the end of the book, scans the pages, flicks over a few more. Finds what heÅfs
searching for and lays a finger on a photograph. ÅgI discovered this a year or so ago,Åh he says softly.
ÅgDidnÅft think anything of it then. But when I saw Dervish removing the bodies of the animals a few months
ago, and found others ripped to piecesÅc always close to a full moonÅcÅh
ÅgI donÅft believe where youÅfre going with this,Åh I grumble.
ÅgRemember the demons,Åh he says, and turns the book around so that I can see the face in the photo.
A young man, maybe sixteen or seventeen. Troubled-looking. Thin. His face is distorted?lots of hair, a
blunt jaw, sharp teeth, yellow eyes. ThereÅfs something familiar about the face, but it takes me a few
seconds to place it. Then it clicks?it reminds me of one of the faces from the hall of portraits. One that
hangs close to Dad and GretÅfs photos.
ÅgSteven Groarke,Åh Bill-E says. ÅgA cousin. Died seven or eight years ago.Åh
ÅgI met him once,Åh I whisper. ÅgBut I was very young. I donÅft remember much about him. Except he didnÅft
have hair or teeth like that.Åh
Bill-E flicks the pages backwards. Comes to rest on a page with another photo from the hall of portraits,
this time a young girl. ÅgKim Reynolds. Ten years old when she died?supposedly in a fire.Åh
He flicks back further, almost to the start of the book. Stops at a rough hand-drawing of a naked,
excessively hairy man, hunched over on all fours like a dog?or a wolf. Razor-sharp teeth. Claws. An
elongated head. Yellow, savage eyes.
ÅgThatÅfs not a human,Åh I mumble, my mouth dry.
ÅgI think it is?or was,Åh Bill-E contradicts me. ÅgI canÅft be sure, but IÅfve compared it to a drawing of Abraham
Garadex one of old BartholomewÅfs sons?and IÅfd swear theyÅfre one and the same.Åh
I reach out with trembling fingers and gently close the book. ÅgSay it,Åh I croak. ÅgSay what you brought me
here to tell me.Åh
ÅgIÅfm not saying this to shock you,Åh Bill-E begins. ÅgI wouldnÅft say it to anyone else. But you were honest
enough to tell me about the demons, so I think?Åh
ÅgJust say it!Åh I snap.
ÅgOK.Åh Bill-E takes a deep, relaxing breath. ÅgI think those people in the book were shape-changers. I think
lycanthropy runs in our family, and has done for hundreds, maybe thousands, of years. I think your
uncle?my father?has it.
ÅgI think Dervish is a werewolf.Åh
A THEORY
ÅgYouÅfre crazy.Åh
Storming down the stairs to the main hall. Bill-E hurrying to catch up.
ÅgIt makes sense,Åh he insists, darting ahead of me, blocking my path. ÅgThe bite marks. The way the
animals were ripped up the middle. Why he collects the carcasses and incinerates them?getting rid of
evidence.Åh
ÅgCrazy!Åh I snort again, and shove past him. ÅgA while ago you told me Dervish was your father?now you
reckon heÅfs a werewolf!Åh
ÅgWhatÅfs one got to do with the other?Åh Bill-E says. ÅgWerewolves are normal people except around the time
of a full moon.Åh
ÅgYouÅfre barking mad!Åh I shout, throwing open the front doors, stepping out into welcome sunlight. ÅgThis is
the twenty-first century. The police have cameras everywhere. DNA testing. All the rest. A werewolf
wouldnÅft last a week in todayÅfs world.Åh
ÅgIt would if it had human cunning,Åh Bill-E disagrees. ÅgHear me out, will you? IÅfve been working this through
in my head for the last few months. IÅfve got most of it figured.Åh
I stop reluctantly. A large part of me wants to keep on walking and not listen to another word of Bill-EÅfs
madness. But a small part is fascinated and wants to hear more.
ÅgGo on,Åh I grunt. ÅgBut if you start on about silver bullets or?Åh
ÅgYou think I want to kill him?Åh Bill-E snaps. ÅgHeÅfs my father!Åh
Bill-E strolls as he outlines his theory. I wander along beside him.
ÅgIn movies you become a werewolf if another werewolf bites you. But I donÅft think dozens of people from
one family would get bitten, one after another, over so many centuries. It must be passed on by genes,
from parents to children. The unlucky ones are born to become werewolves. So I imagine they start to
change pretty early, when theyÅfre kids or teenagers. Dervish is in his forties. If he is a werewolf, I think
heÅfs been living with this for decades.
ÅgWerewolves canÅft be wild killers,Åh he continues. ÅgIf they were, Dervish would have killed loads of people
here. IÅfve checked old newspapers in the library?nobody nearby has been killed by a savage beast any
time recently.Åh
ÅgMaybe he roams further afield to do his killing,Åh I insert wryly.
ÅgI thought of that,Åh Bill-E says earnestly. ÅgBut IÅfve kept a close eye on him these past few months, and I
havenÅft seen him spending nights away around full moon time. Besides, weÅfve seen some of his local
kills?the butchered animals. If he hunts and kills animals this close to home, thereÅfs no reason he
shouldnÅft hunt and kill humans here too. But Dervish isnÅft a killer. If I thought there was even a slim
chance that he was, I wouldnÅft be talking to you?IÅfd be telling the police.Åh
ÅgYouÅfd turn in your own father?Åh I sneer.
ÅgIÅfd have to if he was killing,Åh Bill-E says softly. ÅgMurderers canÅft be allowed to roam freely.Åh
WeÅfre getting near to the sheds. A large sheet of corrugated iron lies on the ground between the sheds
and the mansion. We head for it simply because thereÅfs nowhere better to go. This used to be a small
orchard. There are several smooth tree stumps close by. Bill-E sits on one and I sit on another. I tap the
corrugated iron with my foot, considering the ÅeevidenceÅf.
ÅgSo you think Dervish is a werewolf with a conscience. He kills animals but not people.Åh
ÅgIs that so hard to believe?Åh Bill-E asks. ÅgYou accept demons are real?why not werewolves?Åh
ÅgI accept demons because IÅfve seen them,Åh I answer stiffly. ÅgAnd IÅfm sure theyÅfre demons twenty-four
hours a day, corrupt and evil all the time. If you asked me to believe that people can turn into savage
beasts?physically transform into wolf-like creatures?maybe I could. But I donÅft believe an ordinary
human can change into a hairy, yellow-eyed, fanged werewolf overnight, then resume his ordinary shape
the next day.Åh
ÅgI never said he transformed,Åh Bill-E notes swiftly. ÅgI think itÅfs more a mental condition than a physical
one.Åh
ÅgWhat about those creatures in the book?Åh
ÅgMaybe it works different ways in different people,Åh he suggests. ÅgSome get it bad and change completely.
Others, like Dervish, are able to control it.Åh
ÅgDegrees of werewolfism,Åh I chortle. ÅgThis gets crazier every time you open your mouth.Åh
ÅgOK,Åh Bill-E huffs, getting up, shoulders slumping. ÅgHave it your own way. I thought I was doing you a
favour, but if youÅfre going to mock me, IÅfll just?Åh
ÅgHow do you reckon you were doing me a favour?Åh I interrupt.
ÅgI donÅft live here,Åh Bill-E says, turning to depart. ÅgCome the next full moon, IÅfll be tucked up in bed, in the
Vale, safe with Gran and Grandad. YouÅfll be out here by yourselfÅc alone in the houseÅc with Dervish.Åh
Hours later. Trying to laugh it off. Craziness. Utter lunacy. I shouldnÅft even be considering it. And yetÅc
In a world beset by demons, why shouldnÅft werewolves exist too? And I canÅft think why Dervish should be
searching the forest for dead animals and burning them secretly. And some of the faces in the book
definitely match those in the hall of portraits.
Then again, IÅfve only Bill-EÅfs word that the book is about werewolves. Dervish has a weird sense of
humour. He might have been kidding Bill-E about the book. Maybe he even stuck in the photos and
drawings himself. That makes more sense than Bill-EÅfs werewolf theories. Much more logical.
And yetÅc Dervish arrives back just before sunset. I greet him as he enters. ÅgGo anywhere special?Åh
ÅgJust for a drive,Åh he replies, slicking down his grey hair at the sides of his head.
ÅgWhereÅfs Meera?Åh I ask.
ÅgOff touring the countryside. SheÅfs basing herself here for the next week or so, but sheÅfll be popping in
and out a lot. WhereÅfs Billy?Åh
ÅgHe went home.Åh
ÅgOh?Åh Dervish pauses on his way to the bathroom. ÅgI thought he was going to watch TV.Åh
ÅgHe had other things to do,Åh I lie.
Dervish continues on to the bathroom. My eyes follow him automatically, studying his face, the set of his
jaw, the crown of his head, searching for abnormalities.
Night. Heavy clouds. Only brief glimpses of the three-quarters full moon.
Watching TV with Dervish?a documentary about some Indian woman that he knows. All about using
peopleÅfs natural body energies to cure diseases. Y-A-W-N!
A game of chess afterwards. Dervish appears distracted (or am I imagining it?). Plays loosely, less
aggressive than usual. He beats me, but I take a couple of his major pieces and make him work hard for
his victory.
Dervish stretches. Groans. Checks his watch. ÅgIÅfm exhausted. Going to tuck in early. You staying up late
tonight?Åh
I keep my head down. ÅgNo. IÅfm pretty tired too. IÅfll follow you up soon.Åh
Slyly watching him trot up the stairs?not the pace of a sleepy man heading for bed.
Lining up the chess pieces on the board. Idly playing against myself. Quiet, the house creaking around
me, a wind blowing lightly outside.
I abandon the game halfway through. Go up to my room. Pause at the door. This is stupid. If I leave it like
this, IÅfll be imagining danger everywhere I look. IÅfve got to share this house?my life?with Dervish. I canÅft
let something this ridiculous come between us.
Retreating, I carry on up the staircase to the top floor. DervishÅfs room. I stand outside a moment, getting
my story straight, deciding to tell him everything Bill-E said. I grin as I picture his incredulous response.
Then I rap twice with my knuckles and enter.
ÅgSorry to interrupt, but IÅfve got toÅcÅh
I grind to a halt.
The room is empty.
IÅfve explored the entire house. His study. The bathrooms and toilets. The other bedrooms. Downstairs.
Even the cellar, in case heÅfs scouring the racks, admiring his wine collection. He isnÅft here.
Sitting up in bed. Listening to the wind. Thinking about dead animals and old werewolf films. Afraid to
sleep.
My eyes snap open. Early morning. Must have dozed off despite my fear. I roll out of bed. Grey day, sky
obscured by clouds.
I pad downstairs to the kitchen. Scent of fried bacon and sausages. I push the door open slowly. Dervish
inside, at the frying pan, humming. It takes him a moment to spot me. He smiles. ÅgYouÅfre up early.Åh
ÅgI didnÅft sleep very well.Åh
ÅgHungry?Åh Dervish asks. ÅgWant some bacon? Eggs?Åh
ÅgIÅfll just do toast for myself.Åh I stick two slices of bread in. Pause over the toaster, my back to him. ÅgI called
up to see you last night,Åh I say innocently. ÅgCouldnÅft find you. Were you out?Åh
The shortest of pauses. Then, ÅgYeah. I went to a pub in the Vale. Met Meera there. She went on
somewhere else afterwards. Sorry I didnÅft tell you.Åh
ÅgThatÅfs OK.Åh I reach for the butter. ÅgDid you take the bike?Åh If he says he did, IÅfll know heÅfs lying?I would
have heard it.
ÅgNo,Åh he says. ÅgI walked. I donÅft hold with drinking and driving.Åh
I turn from the toaster, smiling. Dervish is concentrating on his bacon. I canÅft believe I spent so much time
worrying last night. I open my mouth to tell him about yesterdayÅfs scene with Bill-E.
Then close it.
Dervish is reaching for an egg with his right hand. My eyes are attracted to his nails. Not long?but
jagged. Dirty. Red stains under the tips.
It could be paint or rust or something he ate in the pub the night before.
Or it could be blood.
Staring. Staring. Staring.
The toaster pops behind me.
I almost scream.
