The Boy on Graves-End Road (By Caty Weaver)
 Now, the VOA Special English program AMERICAN STORIES.
I'm Pat Bodnar. October thirty-first is Halloween. In the spirit of this ancient holiday, we present a story written by Special English reporter and producer Caty Weaver. It's called "The Boy on Graves-End Road."
Kelly Ryan was making dinner. Her ten-year-old son Benjamin was watching television in the living room. Or at least she thought he was.
KELLY: "Benny-boy, do you want black beans or red beans?"
BEN: "Red beans, Mama."
KELLY: "Don't do that, Ben. You scared me half to death! You're going to get it now ... "
NARRATOR: Ben had come up quietly right behind her.
(SOUND)
KELLY: "I'll get back to you, stinker!"
NARRATOR: Kelly goes to the phone, but as soon as she lays her hand on it, the ringing stops.
KELLY: "How strange. Oh, the beans!"
NARRATOR: Kelly turns her attention back to cooking. As soon as she does, the phone rings again.
KELLY: "Honey, can you get that?"
BEN: "Hello? Oh, hi. Yes, I remember. Sure, it sounds fun. Let me ask my mom. Can you hold? She might wanna talk to your mom. Oh, um, OK. See you tomorrow."
KELLY: "Ben, your rice and beans are on the table. Let's eat."
KELLY: "So, what was that call about?"
BEN: "That was Wallace Gray. You know him, from class. He wants to play tomorrow. Can I go home with him after school? Please, Mom? I get bored around here waiting for you after work."
KELLY: "But, Ben, I don't even know his parents. Maybe I should talk to them."
BEN: "You can't, Mom. He was with his babysitter. He said his parents wouldn't be home until late tonight and they would leave before he went to school in the morning. Please Mom, Wallace lives right over on Graves-End Road. It's a five-minute walk from here. PLEASE,?"
KELLY: "Well, OK. What's so great about this guy, anyway? You've got a ton of friends to play with."
BEN: "I know. But Wallace is just different. He's got a lot of imagination."
NARRATOR: The school week passes, and Ben starts to go home almost every day with Wallace. Kelly notices a change in her son. He seems tired and withdrawn. His eyes do not seem to really look at her. They seem ... lifeless. On Friday night she decides they need to have a talk.
KELLY: "Sweetie, what's going on with you? You seem so tired and far away. Is something wrong? Did you and your new friend have a fight?"
BEN:"No, Mom. We've been having a great time. There's nothing wrong with us. Why don't you like Wallace? You don't even know him, but you don't trust him."
KELLY: "Benjamin, what are you talking about? I don't dislike Wallace. You're right, I don't know him. You just don't seem like yourself. You've been very quiet the past few nights."
BEN: "I'm sorry, Mom. I guess I'm just tired. I have a great time with Wallace. We play games like cops and robbers, but they seem so real that half of the time I feel like I'm in another world. It's hard to explain. It's like,  it's like ... "
KELLY: "I think the word you're looking for is intense."
BEN: "Yeah, that's it -- it's intense."
KELLY: "Well, tell me about today. What kind of game did you play?"
BEN: "We were train robbers. Or Wallace was. I was a station manager. Wallace was running through a long train, from car to car. He had stolen a lot of money and gold from the passengers. I was chasing right behind him, moving as fast as I could. Finally he jumps out of the train into the station to make his escape. But I block his path. He grabs a woman on the station platform. She screams 'No, no!' But he yells 'Let me through, or she dies.' So I let him go."
KELLY: "What happened then?"
BEN: "Well, that's what was weird and, like you said, intense. Wallace threw the lady onto the tracks. And laughed. He said that's what evil characters do in games. They always do the worst."
NARRATOR: Later, after Ben went to bed, Kelly turned on the eleven o'clock news. She was only half-listening as she prepared a list of things to do the next day, on Halloween.
KELLY: "Let's see, grocery shopping, Halloween decorating, dog to the groomer, hardware store, clean up the garden ...
NEWS ANNOUNCER: "... the victim, who has not been identified, was killed instantly. Reports say it appears she was pushed off the station platform into the path of the oncoming train. It happened during rush hour today. Some witnesses reported seeing two boys running and playing near the woman. But police say they did not see any images like that on security cameras at the station. In other news, there was more trouble today as workers protested outside the Hammond ... "
KELLY: "No! It can't be. The station is an hour away. They couldn't have gotten there. How could they? It's just a coincidence."
NARRATOR: The wind blew low and lonely that night. Kelly slept little. She dreamed she was waiting for Ben at a train station. Then, she saw him on the other side, running with another little boy.
It must be Wallace she thought. The little boy went in and out of view. Then, all of a sudden, he stopped and looked across the tracks -- directly at her.
He had no face.
NARRATOR: Saturday morning was bright and sunny, a cool October day. Kelly made Ben eggs and toast and watched him eat happily.
KELLY: "You know, Benny-boy, a woman DID get hurt at the train station yesterday. She actually got hit by a train. Isn't that strange?"
NARRATOR: She looked at Ben.
BEN: "What do you mean, Mom?"
KELLY: "Well, you and Wallace were playing that game yesterday. About being at a train station. You said he threw a woman off the platform, and she was killed by a train."
NARRATOR: Kelly felt like a fool even saying the words. She was speaking to a ten-year-old who had been playing an imaginary game with another ten-year-old. What was she thinking?
BEN: "I said we played that yesterday? I did? Hmmm. No, we played that a few days ago, I think. It was just a really good game, really intense. Yesterday we played pirates. I got to be Captain Frank on the pirate ship, the Argh.
"Wallace was Davey, the first mate. But he tried to rebel and take over the ship so I made him walk the plank. Davey walked off into the sea and drowned. Wallace told me I had to order him to walk the plank. He said that's what evil pirates do."
KELLY: "I guess he's right. I don't know any pirates, but I do hear they're pretty evil!"
BEN: "So can I play with Wallace today when you are doing your errands? Please, Mom? I don't want to go shopping and putting up Halloween decorations."
KELLY: "Oh, whatever. I guess so. I'll pick you up at Wallace's house at about five-thirty, so you can get ready for trick or treating. Where does he live again?
BEN: "Graves-End Road. I don't know the street number but there are only two houses on each side. His is the second one on the left."
KELLY: "OK. I can find that easy enough. Do you still want me to pick up a ghost costume for you?"
BEN: "Yep. Oh, and guess what, Mom: Wallace says he's a ghost, too! I suppose we'll haunt the neighborhood together."
NARRATOR: Everywhere Kelly went that day was crowded. She spent an hour and a half just at the market. When she got home, decorating the house for Halloween was difficult.
But finally she had it all up the way she wanted.
KELLY: "Oh, gosh, five already. I don't even have Ben's costume."
NARRATOR: She jumped into her car and drove to Wilson Boulevard. The party store was just a few blocks away.
Kelly soon found the ghost costume that Ben wanted. She bought it and walked out of the store.
EILEEN: "Hey, Kelly! Long time no see. How's Benjamin doing?"
KELLY: "Eileen! Wow, it's great to see you. How's Matt? We've been so busy since the school year started, we haven't seen anyone!"
EILEEN: "Matt's good. Well, he broke his arm last month so no sports for him. It is driving him crazy, but at least he's got a lot of time for school now!"
EILEEN: "Anyway, Matt was wondering why Benny-boy never comes by anymore. We saw him running around the neighborhood after school last week. It looks like he's having fun, but he's always alone. We don't need to set up a play date. Ben should know that. You just tell him to come by anytime -- "
KELLY: "Wait, wait a  minute. Alone? What do mean alone? He started playing with a new friend, Wallace somebody, after school, like everyday this past week. Ben hasn't been alone. Wallace Gray, that's it. Do you know him? Does Matt?"
EILEEN: "Oh, Kell. Kelly, I'm sure he's a fine kid. I don't know him but don't worry, Ben's got great taste in friends, we know that! I'm sure he wasn't really alone, he was probably just playing hide and seek or something. I didn't mean to worry you. I guess everybody's on edge because of what happened to the Godwin boy this morning."
NARRATOR: Kelly suddenly felt cold and scared. What Godwin boy? And what happened to him? She was not sure she wanted to know, but she had to ask.
EILEEN: "Frank Godwin's youngest boy, Davey, the five-year-old. You know Frank, we call him Captain. He used to be a ship captain. Well, this morning the rescue squad found Davey in Blackhart Lake. They also found a little toy boat that his dad made for him. Davey and his dad named it the Argh. Davey must have been trying to sail it. It's so sad."
KELLY: "Wait, he's dead?
EILEEN: "Yes. Davey drowned."
KELLY: "Where's Blackhart Lake?"
EILEEN: "It's right off Graves-End Road, right behind that little cemetery. That's why they call it Graves-End. Kelly, where are you going?"
KELLY: "I've got to get Benjamin."
NARRATOR: Kelly raced down Main Street. She had no idea who Wallace Gray was or how he was involved in any of this. But she did not trust him and she knew her child was in danger.
Finally she was at Graves-End Road.
BEN: "Only two houses on each side."
NARRATOR: She remembered what Ben had told her.
EILEEN: "Right behind that little cemetery."
NARRATOR: And what Eileen had told her. Kelly got out of the car and walked down the street. She looked around.
BEN: "It's the second one on the left."
NARRATOR: She could see the lake. Some fog was coming up as the sky darkened on this Halloween night. But there was no second house. Instead, what lay before her was grass and large white stones. The cemetery. Kelly walked through the gate into the yard of graves.
KELLY: "Ben?"
NARRATOR: No answer. She kept walking.
KELLY: "Ben? Answer me. I know you're here."
NARRATOR: Again no answer. But the wind blew and some leaves began to dance around a headstone. Kelly walked slowly toward the grave. Suddenly the sky blackened -- so dark, she could not see anything. She felt a force pushing at her. It tried to push her away from the grave. But she knew she had to stay.
KELLY: "Benjamin Owen Orr, this is your mother. Come out this second!"
NARRATOR: No one answered, except for the sound of the blowing wind. The darkness lifted. Silvery moonlight shone down directly onto the old gravestone in front of her. But Kelly already knew whose name she would see.
KELLY: "'Wallace Gray. October thirty-first, nineteen hundred, to October thirty-first, nineteen hundred and ten. Some are best when laid to rest.'"
NARRATOR: Kelly took a deep breath. Then ...
KELLY: "Wallace Gray this play date is OVER! Give me back my son. Wallace, you are in TIME-OUT."
NARRATOR: Suddenly, the ground shoots upward like a small volcano. Soil, sticks and worms fly over Kelly's head and rain down again -- followed by her son, who lands beside her.
BEN: (COUGHING, CHOKING)
KELLY: "Ben! Ben!"
BEN: (COUGHING, CHOKING) "Mom, Mom! Are you there? I can't see. All this dirt in my eyes."
KELLY: "Ben, I'm here, I'm here baby, right here. Oh, sweet Benny-boy. Can you breathe? Are you really ok? What happened? How long were you in there?"
BEN: "I don't know, Mom. But I didn't like it. I didn't like where Wallace lives. I want to go home."
KELLY: "Oh, me too, Sweetie. C'mon, Ben, put your arm around me. C'mon.
(SOUNDS)
BEN: "And Mom, one more thing ... "
KELLY: "What is it, Ben?"
BEN: "I don't want to be a ghost for Halloween."
    Our story "The Boy on Graves-End Road" was written and produced by Caty Weaver. The voices were Andrew Bracken, Faith Lapidus, Katherine Cole, Shirley Griffith and Jim Tedder.  I'm Pat Bodnar.
The Lady, or the Tiger?
Now, the VOA Special English program, AMERICAN STORIES.
We present the short story "The Lady, or the Tiger?" by Frank R. Stockton.  Here is Barbara Klein with the story.
Long ago, in the very olden time, there lived a powerful king.  Some of his ideas were progressive.  But others caused people to suffer.
One of the king's ideas was a public arena as an agent of poetic justice.  Crime was punished, or innocence was decided, by the result of chance.  When a person was accused of a crime, his future would be judged in the public arena.
All the people would gather in this building.  The king sat high up on his ceremonial chair.  He gave a sign.  A door under him opened.  The accused person stepped out into the arena.  Directly opposite the king were two doors.  They were side by side, exactly alike.  The person on trial had to walk directly to these doors and open one of them.  He could open whichever door he pleased.
If the accused man opened one door, out came a hungry tiger, the fiercest in the land.  The tiger immediately jumped on him and tore him to pieces as punishment for his guilt.  The case of the suspect was thus decided.
Iron bells rang sadly.  Great cries went up from the paid mourners.  And the people, with heads hanging low and sad hearts, slowly made their way home.  They mourned greatly that one so young and fair, or so old and respected, should have died this way.
But, if the accused opened the other door, there came forth from it a woman, chosen especially for the person.  To this lady he was immediately married, in honor of his innocence.  It was not a problem that he might already have a wife and family, or that he might have chosen to marry another woman.  The king permitted nothing to interfere with his great method of punishment and reward.
Another door opened under the king, and a clergyman, singers, dancers and musicians joined the man and the lady.  The marriage ceremony was quickly completed.  Then the bells made cheerful noises.  The people shouted happily.  And the innocent man led the new wife to his home, following children who threw flowers on their path.
This was the king's method of carrying out justice.  Its fairness appeared perfect.  The accused person could not know which door was hiding the lady.  He opened either as he pleased, without knowing whether, in the next minute, he was to be killed or married.
Sometimes the fierce animal came out of one door.  Sometimes it came out of the other.
This method was a popular one.  When the people gathered together on one of the great trial days, they never knew whether they would see a bloody killing or a happy ending.  So everyone was always interested.  And the thinking part of the community would bring no charge of unfairness against this plan.  Did not the accused person have the whole matter in his own hands?
The king had a beautiful daughter who was like him in many ways.  He loved her above all humanity.  The princess secretly loved a young man who was the best-looking and bravest in the land.  But he was a commoner, not part of an important family.
One day, the king discovered the relationship between his daughter and the young man.  The man was immediately put in prison.  A day was set for his trial in the king's public arena.  This, of course, was an especially important event.  Never before had a common subject been brave enough to love the daughter of the king.
The king knew that the young man would be punished, even if he opened the right door.  And the king would take pleasure in watching the series of events, which would judge whether or not the man had done wrong in loving the princess.
The day of the trial arrived.  From far and near the people gathered in the arena and outside its walls.  The king and his advisers were in their places, opposite the two doors.  All was ready.  The sign was given.  The door under the king opened and the lover of the princess entered the arena.
Tall, beautiful and fair, his appearance was met with a sound of approval and tension.  Half the people had not known so perfect a young man lived among them.  No wonder the princess loved him!  What a terrible thing for him to be there!
As the young man entered the public arena, he turned to bend to the king.  But he did not at all think of the great ruler.  The young man's eyes instead were fixed on the princess, who sat to the right of her father.
From the day it was decided that the sentence of her lover should be decided in the arena, she had thought of nothing but this event.
The princess had more power, influence and force of character than anyone who had ever before been interested in such a case.  She had done what no other person had done.  She had possessed herself of the secret of the doors.  She knew behind which door stood the tiger, and behind which waited the lady.  Gold, and the power of a woman's will, had brought the secret to the princess.
She also knew who the lady was.  The lady was one of the loveliest in the kingdom.  Now and then the princess had seen her looking at and talking to the young man.
The princess hated the woman behind that silent door.  She hated her with all the intensity of the blood passed to her through long lines of cruel ancestors.
Her lover turned to look at the princess.  His eye met hers as she sat there, paler and whiter than anyone in the large ocean of tense faces around her.  He saw that she knew behind which door waited the tiger, and behind which stood the lady.  He had expected her to know it.
The only hope for the young man was based on the success of the princess in discovering this mystery.  When he looked at her, he saw that she had been successful, as he knew she would succeed.
Then his quick and tense look asked the question: "Which?"  It was as clear to her as if he shouted it from where he stood.  There was not time to be lost.
The princess raised her hand, and made a short, quick movement toward the right.  No one but her lover saw it.  Every eye but his was fixed on the man in the arena.
He turned, and with a firm and quick step he walked across the empty space.  Every heart stopped beating.  Every breath was held.  Every eye was fixed upon that man.  He went to the door on the right and opened it.
Now, the point of the story is this: Did the tiger come out of that door, or did the lady?
The more we think about this question, the harder it is to answer.  It involves a study of the human heart.  Think of it not as if the decision of the question depended upon yourself.  But as if it depended upon that hot-blooded princess, her soul at a white heat under the fires of sadness and jealousy.  She had lost him, but who should have him?
How often, in her waking hours and in her dreams, had she started in wild terror, and covered her face with her hands?  She thought of her lover opening the door on the other side of which waited the sharp teeth of the tiger!
But how much oftener had she seen him open the other door?  How had she ground her teeth, and torn her hair, when she had seen his happy face as he opened the door of the lady!  How her soul had burned in pain when she had seen him run to meet that woman, with her look of victory.  When she had seen the two of them get married.  And when she had seen them walk away together upon their path of flowers, followed by the happy shouts of the crowd, in which her one sad cry was lost!
Would it not be better for him to die quickly, and go to wait for her in that blessed place of the future?  And yet, that tiger, those cries, that blood!
Her decision had been shown quickly.  But it had been made after days and nights of thought.  She had known she would be asked.  And she had decided what she would answer.  And she had moved her hand to the right.
The question of her decision is one not to be lightly considered.  And it is not for me to set myself up as the one person able to answer it.  And so I leave it with all of you:
Which came out of the open door – the lady, or the tiger?
You have heard the American Story "The Lady, or the Tiger?" by Frank R. Stockton.  Your storyteller was Barbara Klein.  This story was adapted into Special English by Shelley Gollust.  It was produced by Lawan Davis.  Listen again next week for another American story in VOA Special English.  I'm Bob Doughty.
Mark Twain, 1835-1910: One of America's Best Known Writers
Download MP3   (Right-click or option-click the link.)
I'm Barbara Klein. And I'm Bob Doughty with PEOPLE IN AMERICA in VOA Special English.  Today we tell about one of America's best-known writers, Mark Twain.  We also talk about his famous book, "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn."
Mark Twain wrote "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" in eighteen eighty-four.  Since then, the book has been published in at least sixty languages.  Some people say it is the best book ever created by an American writer.  American students still read "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn."  And parents, teachers and literary experts still debate the issues discussed in the book.
The writer who became Mark Twain was born Samuel Langhorne Clemens in eighteen thirty-five.  He grew up in Hannibal, Missouri on the Mississippi River.  After his father died in eighteen forty-seven, young Samuel went to work as an assistant to a publisher.  Ten years later, he became a pilot on a steamboat that sailed on the Mississippi.  He heard the riverboat workers call out the words "mark twain!"  That was a measure for the depth of water.
In eighteen sixty-one, the American Civil War put an end to steamboat traffic on the Mississippi.  So Clemens traveled west and became a reporter for newspapers in Nevada and California.
Later, he wrote funny stories and called himself Mark Twain.  Twain became famous for his story, "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County" in eighteen sixty-five.  It tells about a jumping competition among frogs.
Twain also traveled a lot and began writing books about his travels.  His stories about a trip to Europe and the Middle East were published in "The Innocents Abroad."  And his stories about life in the western United States became the book called "Roughing It."
In eighteen seventy, he married Olivia Langdon and moved to Hartford, Connecticut.  During the eighteen eighties, he wrote books for children, such as "The Prince and the Pauper."  It tells about a poor boy who trades identities with a member of England's ruling family.  Twain also wrote "Life on the Mississippi."  This book describes his days as a steamboat pilot and his return to the river twenty years later.
Mark Twain was already a successful writer before he became famous as a public speaker.  Over the years, he had invested a lot of money in unsuccessful businesses.  In eighteen ninety-three, he found himself deeply in debt.  So to earn money, he traveled around the world giving humorous talks.  His speeches made people laugh and remember events they had experienced.
However, his later life was not a happy one.  Two of his daughters died.  His wife died in nineteen-oh-four after a long sickness.  Some critics think Mark Twain's later works were more serious because of his sadness.  He died of heart failure in nineteen ten.
Mark Twain was the first writer to use the speech of common Americans in his books.  He showed that simple American English could be as fine an instrument for great writing as more complex language. Through his books, he captured American experiences as no other writer had.
Many of the stories take place in Hannibal, Missouri.  The small wooden house where he lived as a boy still stands there.  Next to the house is a wooden fence.  It is the kind described in Twain's book, "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer," published in eighteen seventy-six.
In that story, Tom has been told to paint the fence.  He does not want to do it.  But he acts as if the job is great fun.  He tricks other boys into believing this.  His trick is so successful that they agree to pay him money to let them finish his work.  "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer" is considered one of the best books about an American boy's life in the eighteen hundreds.
Tom Sawyer's good friend is Huckleberry, or "Huck," Finn.  Mark Twain tells this boy's story in "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn."  Huck is a poor child, without a mother or home.  His father drinks too much alcohol and beats him.
Huck's situation has freed him from the restrictions of society.  He explores in the woods and goes fishing.  He stays out all night and does not go to school.  He smokes tobacco.
Huck runs away from home.  He meets Jim, a black man who has escaped from slavery.  They travel together on a raft made of wood down the Mississippi River.  Huck describes the trip:
READER:
"It was lovely to live on the raft.  Other places seem so cramped up and smothery, but a raft don't.  You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft...  Sometimes we'd have that whole river to ourselves for the longest time... We had the sky up there, all speckled with stars, and we used to lay on our backs and look up at them, and discuss about whether they was made or only just happened.  Jim, he allowed they was made, but I allowed they happened; I judged it would have took too long to make so many."
Mark Twain started writing "Huckleberry Finn" as a children's story.  But it soon became serious.  The story tells about the social evil of slavery, seen through the eyes of an innocent child.  Huck's ideas about people were formed by the white society in which he lived.  So, at first, he does not question slavery.  Huck knows that important people believe slavery is natural, the law of God.  So, he thinks it is his duty to tell Jim's owners where to find him.  Here is part of the story after Huck decides he must do this.
READER:
"I felt good and all washed clean of sin for the first time I had ever felt.  And I knowed I could pray now.  But I didn't do it straight off, but laid the paper down and set there thinking -- thinking how good it was all this happened so, and how near I come to being lost and going to hell.  And went on thinking...
And I see Jim before me all the time; in the day and in the night-time, sometimes moonlight, sometimes storms, and we a-floating along, talking and singing and laughing.  But somehow I couldn't seem to strike no places to harden me against him, but only the other kind."
Huck comes to understand that Jim is a good man.  He finds he cannot carry out his plan to tell Jim's owners where to find him.  Instead, he decides to help Jim escape.  He decides to do this, even if God punishes him.
Huck's moral search is part of Twain's humor.  Huck's heart leads him to do the right thing, even when everything he has been taught tells him it is wrong.  Huck's nature is good, but he has no idea of it.  Twain tells us more through Huck's voice than Huck himself knows.
It took Mark Twain longer to write "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" than any of his other books.  He started writing in eighteen seventy-six, but put the story away after about two years of work.  He returned to it in eighteen eighty-three.  It was published the next year.
From the beginning, the book was hotly debated.  Some early critics praised its realism and honesty.  But the leading critics of Twain's time hated it.  They objected to the personality of Huck -- a rough, dirty and disobedient boy.
They were insulted by Twain's attacks on the commonly accepted morals and traditions of white society.  And they disliked the way Twain used the language of a common, uneducated person to tell the story.  No writer had ever done that before.