    Summary: Chapter Twenty-Five: Shell Cottage
    Griphook agrees to help them break into Bellatrix Lestrange’s Gringotts vault, but he demands the Sword of Gryffindor as payment. This puts Harry and his friends in a bind, because if they refuse, they’ll never get into the vault to look for a Horcrux, but if they give up the sword, they’ll have no way to destroy any Horcrux they find. Harry decides to trick the goblin, telling him he can have the sword after they break into the vault, but not specifying how long after. Feeling somewhat guilty, Harry gives his promise to Griphook, and for several weeks they plan the break-in.
    Lupin arrives at the cottage with the news that Tonks has had her baby. He asks Harry to be the godfather, and Harry agrees.
    Before Harry and the others embark on their mission, Bill takes Harry aside. He does not know what Harry is planning to do or how Griphook is involved, but he warns Harry to be careful of goblins. He says that goblins are deeply distrustful of wizards, believing that wizards do not respect agreements involving treasure and tend to trample on goblin rights. He explains that goblins believe manufactured items belong to the maker, and that ownership of goblin-made goods should not pass from wizard to wizard but should revert to the goblins after the first owner’s death. He warns Harry of the dangers of reneging on a deal with a goblin.
    Summary: Chapter Twenty-Six: Gringotts
    To break into Gringotts, Hermione disguises herself as Bellatrix Lestrange and changes Ron’s appearance so he’s unrecognizable. With Harry and Griphook under the Invisibility Cloak, the four go to Diagon Alley, where they see witches and wizards begging in the streets, deprived of their wands by the Ministry.
    A Death Eater named Travers stops Hermione/Bellatrix, noting that he’d heard she’d been confined to her house and lost her wand, but Hermione dismisses his questions contemptuously, in a good imitation of Bellatrix’s manner. Unfortunately, Travers is going to Gringotts too, and they enter the bank together.
    The first security obstacle they face is Probity Probes—rods that detect the presence of Concealment spells and magical items. Harry sneaks up in his cloak and zaps the guards working the probes with spells of Confusion.
    At the customer service counter, Hermione asks to be admitted to Bellatrix’s vault, and a goblin asks her for identification. When the goblin says her wand will suffice, Harry realizes that they must know Bellatrix lost her wand and must be expecting an impostor, so he uses the Imperius curse to control the goblin’s mind. The goblin compliments her on her new wand, which makes Travers suspicious, so Harry controls him as well.
    The entire party, led by the mind-controlled goblin, gets into a rail cart and travels deep into the vaults. Harry curses himself for the strategy they’ve adopted, realizing that the Death Eaters know all about who stole Bellatrix’s wand, and that posing as Bellatrix has already brought them too much scrutiny and attention. When the cart passes through a waterfall and all of their Disguising spells are undone, Griphook tells them that the Gringotts employees have set up defenses indicating that they know impostors are present.
    A dragon blocks the passageway to the vault, but Griphook shakes metal instruments called Clankers, which the dragon has been trained to fear, and it backs up. The mind-controlled goblin places his palm to the door of the vault, and it opens.
    Harry knows from his conversations with Dumbledore that if a Horcrux is in the vault, it must either be the Hufflepuff cup or else an unknown object, so they have no choice but to look for the cup. Unfortunately, whenever they touch anything inside the vault, it burns them and then multiplies into myriad worthless copies, so that if they continue touching items in the vault, it will eventually fill and crush them. They try not to touch anything as they search, but this proves impossible.
    Finally, they see the cup sitting high up out of reach. The dragon roars outside the door, and the heat from the multiplied treasure is overwhelming. Hermione Levitates Harry toward the cup, but he knocks over a suit of armor, and they begin to be buried in hot objects. Harry uses the sword to skewer the cup through a handle as Griphook sinks beneath the burning treasure. Harry stops to save him, letting go of the sword, and Griphook seizes the sword, flinging the cup into the air. Harry realizes that Griphook never believed Harry would keep his word, but he manages to catch the cup again as Griphook disappears.
    A crowd of goblins appears in the passage, there to apprehend Harry and company. Harry uses his wand to free the chained dragon, then the three get on the dragon’s back and ride it through the tunnel, eventually emerging in the bank lobby, exiting through the door, and flying off into the sky above Diagon Alley.
    Summary: Chapter Twenty-Seven: The Final Hiding Place
    The dragon flies far off into the countryside, finally flying lower over a mountainous lake. Harry and friends decide to jump off into the lake, and make their way, bruised, burned, and battered, to the shore, the cup safely in their grasp.
    Harry has a vision in which he not only sees out of Voldemort’s eyes but reads his thoughts. Voldemort is questioning a goblin about the break-in, and when told that Harry Potter was the thief and that the cup was the item stolen, he flies into a rage and kills the goblin and all the wizards who don’t flee fast enough, using the Elder Wand. Voldemort is not yet aware that Harry knows about his Horcruxes and is destroying them, because he does not feel anything when they are destroyed. Now that his cup Horcrux has been stolen, it finally occurs to him that Harry might be after his Horcruxes, and that Dumbledore might have given Harry the means to find them out. He resolves to check on his ring and his locket to see that they’re safe, and to keep Nagini the snake (which is itself a Horcrux) beside him at all times. Finally, he will check on the last and safest Horcrux, which is at Hogwarts.
    Harry relays this information to his friends. They know they have very limited time, because Voldemort will discover that his ring and locket are gone within a matter of hours, and may move the final Horcrux to a new hiding place. On a more positive note, they now know the final Horcrux is at Hogwarts, so they set off for the village of Hogsmeade.
    Analysis: Chapters Twenty-Five–Twenty-Seven
    Now that Harry has made his decision and committed himself to finishing the quest, the novel starts to move more quickly to its conclusion, and in three chapters the trio pulls off their most audacious mission yet, breaking into and out of the famously well-protected Gringotts bank. When Harry was introduced to Gringotts in the first novel, something as foolhardy as breaking into a vault was probably the furthest thing from his, or the reader’s mind.
    Harry’s qualms about lying to the goblin, and Bill’s warning about playing fast and loose in deals with goblins, are both examples of foreshadowing. We know that the implicit conflict between Griphook and Harry over the sword will eventually break out into the open, and Harry will have to find a new way to destroy Horcruxes.
    In the heist sequence, we see the results of the Ministry’s activities, as wandless witches and wizards are reduced to begging in the gutter. The suspense of the break-in is heightened by its being narrated from Harry’s point of view, even though it is Hermione who is under the most pressure to perform.
    The image of Voldemort killing his followers brings our attention back to Voldemort as the central threat. Now that the conflicts in the middle of the book, between Harry and his friends and between Harry and himself, have either been resolved or receded into the background, the novel moves into its final phase. Voldemort discovers the true nature of Harry’s quest, and the quest brings Harry and his friends directly into confrontation with Voldemort.
     Chapter Twenty-Eight: The Missing Mirror
     Harry, Ron, and Hermione appear in Hogsmeade, but their appearance triggers a magical alarm that sounds like loud screaming. A dozen Death Eaters burst out of the Three Broomsticks pub in search of them. Though they remain under the Invisibility Cloak, they have nowhere to hide, and they infer from the Death Eaters’ comments that enchantments will keep them from teleporting away again. The Death Eaters unleash dementors in search of them, and Harry summons his Patronus, potentially giving their position away.
     Before the Death Eaters can find them, however, a door opens in a house on the street, and a rough voice summons them inside and into a room above the Hog’s Head Inn. Still cloaked, they look out the window down at the street below, where the man who saved them—whom Harry recognizes as the Hog’s Head barman—argues with the Death Eaters. The man claims that it was he who set off the alarm, letting his cat out after curfew. He claims that the Patronus was his own goat Patronus, not Harry’s stag, and points out that Voldemort won’t want to be summoned over a cat. Mindful that the Hog’s Head bar is a convenient place for them to trade black market goods, the Death Eaters leave him alone.
    Harry recognizes the man’s blue eyes as those he’s been seeing through the magic mirror, and he realizes that this man must be Aberforth, Dumbledore’s brother, and that Aberforth was the one who sent Dobby. Aberforth acknowledges that he’s been trying to keep an eye on Harry, though it was not he who led them to the sword.
    Aberforth tries to convince Harry that Voldemort has already won, and that Harry should abandon his quest—whatever it is—and leave the country, before he meets Dumbledore’s fate. He reminds them of his brother Dumbledore’s penchant for lies and secrecy, and says that many of those Dumbledore loved and cared for turned out to be worse off than if he’d left them alone.
    Hermione guesses that Aberforth is talking about his sister, Ariana, and prods him into giving them the real story of what happened to her. Ariana was not a Squib, as Rita Skeeter claimed. When she was six years old, as her magic was beginning to manifest itself but before she could control it, she was observed doing magic by three much older Muggle boys, who attacked her in some unspecified way, leaving her permanently unhinged. Dumbledore’s father was imprisoned in Azkaban for attacking these boys, and Dumbledore’s early flirtation with the idea of wizards dominating Muggles stemmed from anger at what had happened to his sister and father, coupled with a wish to create a world in which his sister would not have to hide.
    Dumbledore returned home when his mother, Kendra, died and took responsibility for Ariana. He met Grindelwald, and the two began hatching grand plans to change the world, wanting to set off as soon as possible. Aberforth confronted them, pointing out that Ariana was in no fit state to travel or be left alone, so they had no way to do whatever it was they wanted to do. As the argument grew heated, Aberforth drew his wand, and Grindelwald used the Cruciatus (torturing) curse on him. As the three fought, Ariana came to intervene, and one of the curses the three wizards were hurling at each other killed her. Grindelwald left immediately, and Dumbledore was free to embark on his career.
    Harry tells Aberforth that Dumbledore was never free of his past, and describes how Dumbledore, when he drank a potion and went out of his mind in the previous book, was begging an unseen figure to hurt him instead of “them”—clearly a memory of seeing Grindelwald hurting Aberforth and Ariana. Harry says that he hasn’t given up on the Order of the Phoenix and intends to defeat Voldemort, and Aberforth agrees to help him get into Hogwarts.
    Aberforth turns to an oil painting of Ariana on the wall and tells the picture of Ariana that she knows what to do. Ariana turns around within the picture and walks down a tunnel, growing smaller and smaller until she disappears, eventually returning through the picture with a bedraggled and scarred Neville Longbottom, who emerges from the painting into the room.
    Chapter Twenty-Nine: The Lost Diadem
    Neville wants to know if rumors he’s heard about Harry breaking into Gringotts are true, and Harry confirms this. Neville describes what’s happening at Hogwarts: the Carrow siblings, Amycus and Alecto, have been made professors and put in charge of discipline. Amycus teaches students how to use the Cruciatus Curse, while Alecto teaches Muggle studies with an anti-Muggle bias.
    Neville proudly shows the scars he earned for standing up to the Carrows. Neville remembered that when Harry stood up to unjust authority figures, it gave the rest of the students hope, so he tried to fill this role after Harry left school. Luna was taken away from school, and Ginny never returned after Easter break, so Neville found himself increasingly on his own in carrying out underground acts of resistance against the new regime. Eventually, the Death Eaters tried to stop Neville by going after his grandmother, who put a Death Eater in the hospital and then went on the run. Neville knew that it was time for him to disappear, and he has been in hiding in the Room of Requirement, which they had used in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.
    Neville leads Harry and company through the portrait into the Room of Requirement. About twenty students are hiding in it, all members of Dumbledore’s Army and supporters of Harry who’ve been driven into hiding. They are wild with joy at seeing Harry and his friends. Soon after, Luna Lovegood and Dean arrive. All of the students are eager to help Harry, and are unhappy and resentful to hear that Harry, Ron, and Hermione are on a mission alone that they won’t disclose or accept help with. With some prodding from Ron and Hermione, Harry realizes that he doesn’t have to be quite as cryptic as Dumbledore and can recruit help in searching for the Horcrux without explaining what it is.
    Harry tells the assembled students that they’re looking for a distinctive object, and that they don’t know what it is but think it might be associated with Ravenclaw (given that other objects were associated with other houses). Luna volunteers that there is a legend about a lost diadem of Ravenclaw, which has been gone for centuries. Harry could see a reproduction of it on the statue of Rowena Ravenclaw in the Ravenclaw common room.
    Luna and Harry put on the Invisibility Cloak, and Luna leads him to the room so he can see it. Instead of a password, the Ravenclaw door is opened by answering a very philosophical question. The knocker asks, “Which came first, the phoenix or the flame?” and Luna opens the door by answering, “A circle has no beginning.”
    Harry climbs up on the statue to get a good look at the tiara, but is apprehended by Alecto Carrow, who touches her Dark Mark to summon Voldemort.
    Analysis: Chapters Twenty-Eight–Twenty-Nine
    Aberforth’s story gives Harry a better perspective on the story of Dumbledore’s youthful mistakes, providing the essential details—that Ariana was not a Squib but was attacked by Muggles—that make Dumbledore, his mother Kendra, and even his father all seem human rather than monstrous. So complete is Harry’s shift in attitude toward Dumbledore that he is now in a position to defend Dumbledore to Aberforth. Harry’s resolve to complete Dumbledore’s mission is intact, and it is enough to galvanize others who have given up. In the last chapters of the novel we see Harry as a leader, and we see Harry’s leadership reflected in others.
    Neville’s newfound heroism is a pleasurable reversal of his role throughout the series as the most timid and least competent student in Harry’s class. As Neville explains it, however, his own heroism is not simply a matter of difficult and challenging times bringing out the best in his own character. Instead, Neville modeled his heroism and leadership after Harry’s. When Harry did not appear in school, Neville stepped in to fill the role. As the intimidated whipping boy of the school for so long, Neville was well able to appreciate the importance of those who take a stand and show leadership.
    Neville’s adoption of Harry’s role and his continuation of Harry’s struggle demonstrate an important way in which human beings can connect with one another even after losing one another. A central problem of the book, expressed vividly in the epigraph from Aeschylus, is how we can be connected to people we have lost. Important people have died, and Harry has felt—particularly in the graveyard in Godric’s Hollow—that they are simply gone, unable to care about him or his struggles anymore. But Neville’s actions show Harry that there is a way to stay connected to people who have left us, if we keep faith with them and continue their struggle.
    Summary: Chapter Thirty: The Sacking of Severus Snape
    Harry has a vision of Voldemort receiving the summons. Luna Stuns Alecto, knocking her out and waking the Ravenclaw students, who enter the common room. Amycus pounds on the door, but he’s too stupid to answer the doorknocker’s next question, and can’t get in. Harry slips into Voldemort’s mind and sees that Voldemort has decided to check on his locket Horcrux before coming to Hogwarts, giving Harry a little extra time.
    Professor McGonagall arrives outside the room and lets Amycus in. Harry and Luna have recloaked, and Amycus sees only his Stunned sister on the floor. His chief worry is that they will be punished for giving a false alarm, and he muses aloud that he can blame the summons on the Ravenclaw students, so Voldemort may be satisfied with killing a few of them. When Professor McGonagall stands up to Amycus defiantly, he spits in her face, prompting Harry to step out of the Cloak and deliver a Cruciatus Curse at Amycus.
    Professor McGonagall urges Harry to flee, but when he explains that he is looking for the lost diadem of Ravenclaw on Dumbledore’s orders, she says that the teachers will secure the school from Voldemort while he searches. Visions of Voldemort reveal to Harry that Voldemort has discovered that his locket is missing and is on his way to the school.
    Harry and Professor McGonagall quickly make a plan to alert the other heads of houses and evacuate any students unwilling or too young to fight against Voldemort. They are on their way to alert the heads, with Harry and Luna hidden under the cloak, when they meet Severus Snape in the hallway. When Snape demands to know if McGonagall has seen Harry Potter, she attacks him, and they duel. McGonagall holds Snape at bay, and he is finally forced to take flight when Professors Sprout and Flitwick run up to aid her. Snape leaps from the window and flies away on huge, batlike wings.
    Professor McGonagall organizes the other professors in establishing magical defenses and evacuating students, putting to work those students who can help defend the school, including Dumbledore’s Army. Lupin and the entire Weasley family enter the school in order to help, with Percy apologizing for being a pro-Ministry prig and Lupin showing pictures of his and Tonks’s baby.
    Ginny Weasley tells Harry that Ron and Hermione said something about heading to a bathroom. Harry starts to look for them when he has a vision of Voldemort arriving at the school gates, Nagini draped across his shoulders.
    Summary: Chapter Thirty-One: The Battle of Hogwarts
    As the students of Hogwarts prepare to fight or flee, Voldemort’s voice echoes through the school, promising to leave Hogwarts untouched if Harry Potter is handed over by midnight. Pansy Parkinson of Slytherin House shouts that they should grab Harry, but the Gryffindors, Hufflepuffs, and Ravenclaws all stand in his defense. The Slytherins all leave the school, but McGonagall has to force out the members of other houses who are underage but want to stay and fight for Harry.
    The professors go to man their battle positions, as Harry turns back to his search for the lost diadem of Ravenclaw. Remembering that the diadem has not been seen “in living memory,” he decides to ask the dead—the Gray Lady, who is the House ghost of Ravenclaw. Harry finds the Gray Lady, who refuses to help him until he confronts her with the threat to Hogwarts. Then she admits that she is the ghost of Helena Ravenclaw, the daughter of the founder. Helena had stolen the diadem, hoping to make herself smarter and more important than her mother. She fled to hide in a forest in Albania, and her mother, Rowena, concealed the theft. On her deathbed, Rowena wanted to see her daughter one last time, so she sent a man who loved Helena to seek her out. Helena refused to come, and the young man killed her in anger, then killed himself. The young man became the Hogwarts ghost known as the Bloody Baron, while the diadem was left in the forest.
    Pressed by Harry, the Gray Lady admits that she told her story to Tom Riddle (Voldemort’s name when he was a student at Hogwarts). Harry guesses that Tom Riddle went and found the diadem in the forest, but when he made it a Horcrux, re-hid it at Hogwarts. (Harry knows from his vision that it’s at Hogwarts now.) He reasons that Voldemort’s only chance to hide it after he graduated from Hogwarts would have been the day he came to ask Dumbledore for a job, on the way to or from Dumbledore’s office.
    Harry leaves Ravenclaw Tower and runs into Hagrid, who is with his giant dog Fang and giant half-brother, Grawpy. Harry leads them off in search of Ron and Hermione, seeing signs everywhere that the battle for Hogwarts has begun. As they run through the school, Harry remembers with a shock that he has seen the diadem in the Room of Requirement, in its form of “the room where everything is hidden,” when he hid his own Potions book there in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.
    Finally, Harry encounters Ron and Hermione, who have gone to the Chamber of Secrets to retrieve basilisk teeth to destroy Horcruxes with. Ron was able to imitate Harry speaking Parseltongue to gain entry to the room, and they destroyed the cup. Harry, Ron, and Hermione go to the Room of Requirement, taking stock of the ever-worsening battle swirling around them. In the room, amid the labyrinth of hidden objects, Harry finds the diadem but is confronted by Draco Malfoy and his cronies, Crabbe, and Goyle, who followed Harry in to capture him, hoping to hand him over to Voldemort.
    Crabbe and Goyle try to kill Harry rather than capture him, for once ignoring Draco’s leadership, and in the struggle the diadem is dropped. Crabbe uses a fire curse to try to kill Harry and his friends, and it rages out of control. Harry and Ron seize broomsticks and save Hermione, Goyle, Malfoy, and the diadem, but Crabbe dies. Outside the Room of Requirement, they see that the diadem Horcrux has been destroyed by the fire curse.
    A noise in the corridor alerts them that Death Eaters have gained entrance to Hogwarts. They go to help the defenders of Hogwarts, and in the ensuing battle, Fred Weasley is killed.
    Analysis: Chapters Thirty–Thirty-One
    In these chapters, Harry and his friends return to the halls of Hogwarts, which is of course the setting for all of the other books in the series, but which has long been absent from this one. Hogwarts is much more than just a setting for the action, having been one of the chief attractions for readers of the series, and almost a character in its own right, with its living walls, statues, and portraits and its secrets that not even Dumbledore knew fully. By moving the climactic ending of the book back to Hogwarts, the author allows the school to resume its fascinating role as a character once more, and also raises the stakes of the battle between Harry and Voldemort, as the school itself, and everyone and everything in it, come under attack. For Harry to fight to save the wizarding world, or the world in general, is very abstract. For him to fight to save Hogwarts is something we can picture in detail and care about.
    When Harry leaves the Room of Requirement and explores Ravenclaw, we see more reversals in relation to the previous novels. Now Harry walks through the school as an intruder and an adult rather than a student, and the crowds of sleeping Ravenclaw students seem like children in comparison to him. Professor McGonagall, who had always kept him in his place by being the strict disciplinarian, is now seen by Harry as a friend, and he lashes out at Amycus to protect her. She herself views Harry in a different light, for once not trying to order him around for his own good.
    Plot developments come very quickly in Chapter Thirty-One, with Harry’s discovery of the diadem’s history and his recovery of it, his final confrontation with Draco, Ron and Hermione’s collection of the basilisk teeth, the mobilization of virtually every remaining character in the book, and the death of Fred Weasley. The book’s focus swings wide in this chapter, encompassing everything and everyone who matters to Harry, so that we can see that everything is to be decided this night.
    Summary: Chapter Thirty-Two: The Elder Wand
    Giant spiders from the Forbidden Forest enter the school, fighting on the side of the Death Eaters, as Harry, Ron, and the Weasleys try to move Fred’s body to a safe place. Ron wants to stay and fight to avenge his brother, but Hermione urges him to focus on the goal: to destroy Nagini, the last known Horcrux. Harry uses his ability to see through Voldemort’s eyes to find out where he is, and has a vision of Voldemort in the Shrieking Shack in Hogsmeade ordering Lucius Malfoy, who is frantic with worry about Draco, to go fetch Snape.
    They head toward the Whomping Willow to enter the passageway to the Shrieking Shack, on the way fighting off attacking Death Eaters and saving Draco Malfoy’s life from a Death Eater who mistakes him for an enemy. Before they reach the Willow, they see that giants have joined the fight on both sides, and they have to fight off a hundred dementors, with some help from Luna, Ernie, and Seamus, who have mastered the art of summoning Patronuses.
    Harry, Ron, and Hermione enter the passage and creep to where they can observe what’s happening in the Shrieking Shack. Voldemort is telling Snape that the Elder Wand is working no better than his old wand and has not given him the extraordinary powers it was supposed to. Voldemort concludes that he is not yet the true master of the Elder Wand, because Snape killed its previous owner, and thus Voldemort must kill Snape to be the wand’s master. Voldemort orders Nagini to kill Snape, and the great snake bites Snape’s neck, mortally wounding him. Voldemort leaves.
    Harry goes to Snape’s body, and Snape, dying, tells Harry to “Take it,” and expels a silvery substance from his mouth, nose, and ears. Harry collects the substance in a flask that Hermione provides, and Snape, after telling Harry to look at him, dies.
    Summary: Chapter Thirty-Three: The Prince’s Tale
    Voldemort addresses the school, telling them that he will give them a one-hour reprieve to dispose of their dead and treat the wounded. He announces that Harry should meet him alone in the Forbidden Forest in one hour, or Voldemort will recommence the battle, enter the fray himself, and kill every person who helped Harry.
    In the Great Hall of Hogwarts, those who have died fighting for Harry are laid out. Among the dead are Lupin and Tonks.
    Leaving behind his grieving friends, Harry goes to Dumbledore’s office to place Snape’s memories into the Pensieve for viewing, witnessing Snape’s true life story. He sees Snape as a boy of nine or ten, observing Lily Evans, Harry’s future mother, first discovering her magical talents, and Snape clumsily trying to befriend her by telling her about her true nature as a witch. In a slightly later memory, Snape has become her friend and is giving Lily her first introduction to the wizarding world. Lily’s sister, Petunia, taunts Snape for his awful clothes, provoking him into attacking her, which angers Lily.
     Harry observes a scene in which Snape watches Lily say good-bye to her family to board the Hogwarts Express for the first time. Lily reveals to Petunia that she knows that Petunia, who professes to hate magic, begged Dumbledore to admit her to the school. Petunia angrily accuses Lily of being a freak and a sneak, and Lily feels discomfort regarding Snape, who was the one who stole Petunia’s letter of response from Dumbledore. On the train, young James Potter and Sirius Black taunt and mock Snape.
     Harry sees Snape’s disappointment at Lily’s being Sorted into Gryffindor rather than his own Slytherin. Later in their school career, Lily and Snape are still close friends, but Snape is jealous of James Potter’s attraction to her, and Lily disapproves of Snape’s Dark magic–practicing friends. Lily is furious with Snape for calling her a Mudblood, and for speaking contemptuously of Mudbloods in general. Snape frantically apologizes, but Lily tells him they have chosen separate ways.
     Harry watches as Snape meets with Dumbledore on a wild hilltop. Snape has sworn loyalty to Voldemort but is meeting with Dumbledore secretly because he knows that Voldemort plans to kill Lily, her husband James, and her son, all because Snape told Voldemort about Professor Trelawney’s prediction that Voldemort would be killed by a boy born at the end of July. Snape promises to do anything Dumbledore asks if he will protect Lily.
     Later, in Dumbledore’s office, Snape sobs for Lily Potter’s death. Dumbledore tells him that the son survived, and that Snape’s path is clear if he truly loved Lily. Snape agrees to devote his life to protecting Harry but makes Dumbledore promise never to tell anyone.
     Much later, when Harry is a student at Hogwarts, Snape expresses his irritation at how Harry resembles his father in attitude and actions. Still later, Dumbledore and Snape discuss Karkaroff’s darkening Dark Mark, and Voldemort’s imminent return, which it presages.
     In another memory, Snape ministers to Dumbledore after Dumbledore rashly puts on the ring of Marvolo Gaunt and suffers a blackened and burned hand because of the ring’s curse. Snape’s potions buy Dumbledore a year of life, but nothing they do can prevent the curse from killing him eventually. Dumbledore makes Snape promise to protect the students at Hogwarts if Voldemort gains control of the school, to help Draco stay out of trouble as he tries to carry out Voldemort’s instructions to kill Dumbledore, and to kill Dumbledore himself when the right time comes.
     Later, Dumbledore tells Snape that after Snape kills Dumbledore, there may come a time when Voldemort seems to fear for the life of his snake (which will mean that the other Horcruxes are destroyed or threatened). At that moment, Snape should tell Harry the truth: that when Voldemort sent his killing curse at Lily Potter and blasted his own soul to bits, a piece of Voldemort’s soul bound itself to Harry’s. This event is the reason that Harry can read Voldemort’s mind and can speak Parseltongue. As long as Harry lives, so will Voldemort. The only way Voldemort will die is if all of the Horcruxes are destroyed and Voldemort himself kills Harry, who is in fact the seventh Horcrux. Snape is furious, accusing Dumbledore of raising Harry as a lamb for slaughter and using Snape by falsely telling him he was protecting Lily Potter’s son.
     Later, after Dumbledore’s death, the portrait of Dumbledore tells Snape to give Voldemort the correct date of Harry’s departure from the Dursleys and to plant the idea of using decoys, so Harry can escape. In the pursuit of Harry, Snape burns off George Weasley’s ear accidentally, while trying to protect Lupin from a Death Eater.
     Snape goes to Sirius’s house and steals the small fragment at the end of the letter Harry found, simply because the page is signed “Lots of love, Lily.” He tears Lily’s picture out of the photograph of Lily, James, and Harry.
     Finally, the portrait of Phineas Nigellus tells Snape that Harry and Hermione are hiding in the Forest of Dean, Hermione having mentioned the place while opening her magic bag. Dumbledore urges Snape to take the Sword of Gryffindor to them under the right conditions, and Snape leaves, on his way to put the sword under ice and use his own Patronus (the silver doe) to guide Harry.
    The memories over, Harry wakes up in the headmaster’s office.
    Analysis: Chapters Thirty-Two–Thirty-Three
    Snape has no chance to fight or stand up to Voldemort, and thus has no time to demonstrate his true heroic character before he dies. His final actions are as tightly cloaked in mystery as everything he has done throughout the series. Sadly, his death accomplishes nothing, as Voldemort is simply pursuing one more misguided and doomed scheme to acquire the power to beat Harry. Fortunately for Harry, Snape has time for one last act, extracting his memories for viewing in the Pensieve, the headmaster’s privilege (since the Pensieve is in the headmaster’s office).
    The viewing of Snape’s life story in the Pensieve is very satisfying, as it explains everything mysterious or contradictory that we have witnessed about Snape throughout the series. His connection with Slytherin and past as a Death Eater are all real, but his animosity toward Harry was never malice, but simply irritation at seeing Harry’s father reflected in him. We knew since Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban that Harry’s father had persecuted Snape, but we never saw that Snape’s hatred of James Potter was counterbalanced by a much stronger emotion. Much to our surprise, everything that Snape has ever done throughout the series has been motivated by love. The sudden revelation that things were not as they seemed, and that something else was going on all along that we are only now aware of, is called irony, and it is one of the most pleasurable experiences an author can produce. When the events in question concern a character who has fascinated us and held our attention through seven books, the experience for the reader is rare and special.