THE CURSE
A long silence. Wanting to roar at Dervish, call him a liar, make him take the words back. But thereÅfs no
reason for him to lie about something like this. Nothing but sad honesty in his eyes.
Feeling sick. Instantly mad at Dad for what he did. But just as instantly glad?IÅfm not alone! I thought I lost
everything when the demons attacked. Now I discover I have a brother.
ÅgThis is crazy,Åh I moan, torn between rage and delight. ÅgI donÅft know what to make of it. I canÅft handle it.Åh
ÅgOf course you can,Åh Dervish snaps. ÅgYou handled the deaths of your parents and Gret?this is small fry
in comparison.Åh
ÅgButÅc I always thoughtÅcÅh I shake my head, not sure what IÅfm thinking or what I feel. ÅgWhy didnÅft you tell
Bill-E? You should have, especially after his Mum died. He could have come to live with us. Dad could?Åh
ÅgCal could do nothing!Åh Dervish barks. ÅgNot without revealing the truth and tearing his family apart.Åh He
runs a hand through his short grey hair. ÅgBut he tried to do it anyway. He came here to claim Billy when
Emily died, despite the havoc it would cause.Åh
ÅgWhy didnÅft he?Åh I ask.
ÅgMa and Pa Spleen threatened legal action. He would have fought them in court, except he knew heÅfd
lose?theyÅfd simply point out to the judge that Emily hadnÅft told the boy who his father was, or allowed
Cal access to him while she was alive. He hadnÅft a hope.Åh
ÅgCouldnÅft you have cast a spell on them?made them give Bill-E to him?Åh
ÅgIÅfm not that powerful,Åh Dervish chuckles humourlessly. ÅgI ÅepersuadedÅf them to let me into BillyÅfs life when
Emily died, but that was as far as my influence ran.Åh
I think it over some more, remembering Dad, how much he loved Mum, how happy they seemed
together. I never suspected him of anything like this. I donÅft think Mum did either.
ÅgI know itÅfs a shock,Åh Dervish says quietly, Ågbut can I ask you to put it to one side for the moment? YouÅfve
got the rest of your life to chew it over. Billy doesnÅft have the same luxury. If we donÅft act soonÅcÅh
I let out a long, shuddering breath. Glance at the unconscious boy?my brother!?in the cage, his dark
skin and twisted hands. Recall the photos of the creatures in DervishÅfs lycanthropy books, warped and
inhuman.
ÅgOK. WeÅfll discuss Dad later.Åh I lean forward intently. ÅgTell me about werewolves.Åh
ÅgIÅfll keep this as short as possible,Åh Dervish says. Reaching under the table, he produces two cans of
Coke from a drawer, hands one to me and gulps thirstily at his. I sip mine while he speaks.
ÅgThe curse is ancient. We call it the Garadex curse, since the Garadexes were the first in our family to
write about it. If other families have it, we donÅft know about them. Occasionally weÅfll hear of a stranger
whoÅfs changed, but when we research their family tree we always find links to ourselves.
ÅgScientists whoÅfve studied the lycanthropic gene say itÅfs a freak?they havenÅft found it anywhere else in
nature. They donÅft know where it came from or why it functions the way it does.Åh
He finishes his Coke, fishes out another, and continues. ÅgWeÅfve kept the secret to ourselves. WeÅfre a
large family, wealthy and powerful. Those of us unaffected by the disease protect the secret. ThatÅfs why
you and Billy arenÅft under observation in some scientific institute.Åh
ÅgWhy would I be under observation?Åh I enquire. ÅgIÅfm not a werewolf.Åh I pause as a horrible thought strikes.
ÅgAm I?Åh
Dervish doesnÅft look at me. ÅgI donÅft know,Åh he answers softly. ÅgThe gene surfaces at random. Sometimes
it strikes every member of a family branch, wiping them out. Other times it lies dormant for two or three generations. YouÅfre one of three children. Gret and Billy both succumbed to the disease. I wish I could
say that makes you more or less likely to turn, but thereÅfs no way of guessing.
ÅgThe change strikes?if it strikes?anywhere between the age of ten and eighteen. There have been a
handful of cases involving younger children, but nobody past their teens has ever turned.Åh
ÅgThatÅfs why there are so many young faces in the hall of portraits!Åh I exclaim. ÅgThose kids all turned into
werewolves!Åh
Dervish nods glumly. ÅgThereÅfs no known cure. Those who catch it are doomed to live as deranged
animals for the rest of their days. They normally donÅft last long?twenty years at most, if allowed to live.Åh
ÅgWhat do you mean?Åh
Dervish taps the side of his can with his fingernails, a distant expression in his eyes. ÅgItÅfs a terrible curse,Åh
he says softly. ÅgTo see one you love change into an animal, to chain them up and endure their painÅc
Many choose not to put themselves through the anguish. A lot of parentsÅcÅh He stops tapping and his
expression hardens. ÅgThey put them out of their misery.Åh
I gulp dreadfully. ÅgThey kill them?Åh
He nods. ÅgTheyÅfre beasts,Åh he says quickly before I can express my horror. ÅgIf they get loose, they kill.
There are people in the family, a group called the Lambs, who handle the details if the parents canÅft.
Family executioners, to be blunt.Åh
ÅgBut you said there was a way to reverse it,Åh I remind him, trying not to dwell on all those faces from the
hall of portraits, the gruesome ends they must have endured.
ÅgIÅfm coming to that,Åh Dervish sighs. ÅgThough be warned?when I tell you, you may wish that I hadnÅft.Åh
A long pause. Then a groan from the cage?Bill-E stirring.
ÅgWhen will he wake?Åh I ask, eyeing him nervously.
ÅgSoon,Åh Dervish says. ÅgLetÅfs go to my study?it wonÅft be pretty when he starts bellowing.Åh
ÅgNo,Åh I mutter, gripping the edge of the table. ÅgI want to be here for him.Åh
Dervish nods understandingly, then returns to his story.
ÅgOur scientists havenÅft been able to crack the wolfen gene and find a cure. But science isnÅft the only way
to fight a disease. Magic works too.Åh
Dervish reaches across the desk, roots through the books stacked to his left and finds a thick tome.
Opening it, he passes it to me, and I find myself gazing into the eyes of the family magician, Bartholomew
Garadex.
ÅgOld Bart devoted a large chunk of his life to trying to rid the family of its curse,Åh Dervish says. ÅgHe
believed it had its origins in magic. For decades he cast spells, experimented and sought a cure in arcane
volumes. But nothing worked. He could change a normal humanÅfs shape but could do nothing with a
transformed werewolf. He was powerless, like everybody else.
ÅgAnd then he met a creature who wasnÅft.Åh
DervishÅfs face darkens. Taking the book from me, he closes it, then reaches for the folder where I found
the drawing of Lord Loss.
ÅgStop!Åh I gasp. He looks at me questioningly. ÅgI found that when I was here before,Åh I tell him, eyeing the
folder fearfully. ÅgThe drawing of Lord Loss spoke to me. Its lips and eyes moved.Åh
ÅgIf IÅfd known you were so close to the truth,Åh Dervish murmurs, ÅgI would have warned you about that.Åh He
cocks a thumb at the door leading to the wine cellar. ÅgAs I told you, the house is safe. The land around is
safe too. But I leave this cellar unprotected. There are times when I have to deal with entities not of this
realm, and I need a base from which I can make contact.Åh
Dervish runs a couple of fingers over the leather cover, contemplating it with an expression of equal parts
respect, sadness and fear. ÅgLord Loss canÅft cross the divide between his realm and ours uninvited,Åh he
says. ÅgAn ordinary person could look at that picture for decades without seeing anything untoward.
ÅgBut you arenÅft ordinary. YouÅfve faced demons and tapped into your magic potential?when you escaped
through the dog flap. He was able to use your power to speak to you. He couldnÅft have harmed you
through the book, but he might have been able to trick you into summoning him.Åh
ÅgBut who?what!?is he?Åh I cry.
ÅgLord Loss is a demon master,Åh Dervish says. ÅgOne of many supernatural beings who exist on the edges
of our reality, in magical realms of their own. We call them the Demonata. Some meddle in the ways of
humans, most have nothing to do with us, while a few?like Lord Loss?feed upon us.Åh
My hands are trembling. I grip them tightly between my knees.
ÅgLord Loss is a sentinel of sorrow,Åh Dervish says. ÅgHe feeds on human pain and suffering. A funeral is a
three-course meal to him. A lonely, suicidal personÅfs a tasty snack. He delights in our fear and grief,
encourages it when possible, then drains it and grows strong on humanityÅfs weakness.Åh
ÅgHow does he do it?Åh I croak. ÅgHow does he feed?Åh
ÅgIÅfd have to get deep into metaphysics to explain that,Åh Dervish snorts. ÅgLetÅfs just say he has a psychic
straw through which he can suck a personÅfs pain.
ÅgNow, old Bart knew about Lord Loss?heÅfd seen him feeding on grieving members of the family?but he
didnÅft care. Bartholomew was interested only in lifting the curse, not warding off demons. But later in life,
he spent time studying the Demonata. They can live for thousands of years. I believe Bartholomew hoped
to learn their secret. He never did, but at some point he found out that Lord Loss had the power to
reverse the lycanthropic change.Åh
ÅgYou mean Lord Loss can cure Bill-E?Åh I cry.
ÅgIf he chooses to.Åh
ÅgThen letÅfs summon him!Åh I shout, leaping out of my chair. ÅgWhat are we waiting for? LetÅfs call him here
now and?Åh
ÅgThe Demonata are evil and selfish,Åh Dervish interrupts. ÅgItÅfs possible to strike deals with some of them,
but theyÅfll do nothing out of the goodness of their hearts?as you know, some donÅft even have a heart!Åh
ÅgThen howÅc?Åh
Dervish gestures for me to sit. IÅfm exasperated, but I obey.
ÅgBartholomew tried everything to get Lord Loss to help. He begged, he threatened, he even offered his
soul.Åh
ÅgSouls are real?Åh I blurt out.
ÅgAbsolutely,Åh Dervish nods fiercely. ÅgAnd prized by demons above all other possessions. A soul can be
tormented far worse than a body. If I was to lose my soul, my body would continue to function?but on
auto-pilot. IÅfd be like a zombie, an empty shell, feeding, breathing, walking?but not thinking or feeling.
Meanwhile, in the universe of the Demonata, my soul would be put through every kind of hell
imaginable?and many that arenÅft!
ÅgIf Bartholomew had been a younger man, he might have been able to tempt Lord Loss. Trouble is, a
soulÅfs only good to a demon as long as the human lives. Old Bart was close to death. Lord Loss judged it
an inadequate trade-off.
ÅgBut Bartholomew was stubborn. He pursued Lord Loss and braved the attacks of his familiars, suffering
many wounds which hastened the hour of his death. But eventually old Bart discovered Lord LossÅfs great
obsession, which he?Åh
Guttural roars drown Dervish out. Bill-EÅfs on his feet, clutching the bars of the cage, shaking them,
screaming, his face a dark mask of furious lines, teeth bared, tongue lashing wildly from side to side, his
yellow eyes gleaming through the narrow slits of his eyelids.
ÅgBill-E!Åh I yell, jumping to my feet, stepping towards the cage.
ÅgEasy,Åh Dervish says, grabbing my arm. ÅgRemember what I told you?heÅfll kill you if you get too close.Åh
I stare numbly at Bill-E as he screams, pulls at the bars, kicks and head-butts them, his eyes all the time
on Dervish and me.
ÅgDoes he recognise us?Åh I ask sickly.
ÅgNo,Åh Dervish replies.
Bill-E quits wrestling with the bars and turns away, disgusted. He stumbles over the deer, which shakes
fearfully. Bill-E stops and grins savagely. Circles the defenceless beast, sniffing, growling. Then he falls
on its neck. Claws?teeth?ripping?blood.
My cheeks are wet. IÅfm crying again.
ÅgLetÅfs go,Åh Dervish whispers. ÅgWe can finish this in my study.Åh
ÅgI donÅft want to leave him alone,Åh I sob.
ÅgWerewolves donÅft get lonely,Åh Dervish says. ÅgThey feel only hunger and hate.Åh
He picks up Meera and nudges me towards the door leading to the wine cellar. I pause at the exit. One
last horrified study of Bill-E Spleen?my brother. Then I follow my uncle to sanity.
THE CHALLENGE
Dervish lays Meera on one of the mansionÅfs many beds. He examines her again, in more detail this time.
He tries to wake her by calling her name and gently shaking her. When that fails he goes to the bathroom, comes back with a glass of water, uses his fingers to flick drops at her face. She doesnÅft stir.
Dervish steps away grimly. ÅgI could try to bring her round with magic,Åh he says, Ågbut IÅfm not sure how
serious the damage is. I could make it worse.Åh
ÅgWhy donÅft you just leave her?Åh I ask. ÅgSheÅfll live, wonÅft she?Åh
ÅgI think so.Åh
ÅgThen let her sleep. ThatÅfll be best for her, right?Åh
Dervish stares at me, troubled, then walks out of the room without saying anything. I wrap a blanket over
Meera, then close the door on her and head up to the study.
After the dark of the cellar, the study seems warmer and brighter than ever. I lose myself in a large
leather chair, knees drawn up to my chest, head tucked between them, weary and afraid. Dervish is
standing by a chess set. This is his favourite set, the pieces based on characters from The Lord of the
Rings. Dervish picks up a brightly painted hobbit figurine and toys with it absently while he speaks.
ÅgI donÅft think youÅfve ever truly appreciated the complexities of chess,Åh he says. ÅgSo few pieces, yet so
many possibilities. No two games are ever the same. You can learn the rules in an afternoon, yet spend
the rest of your life trying to master them.Åh
ÅgStick chess up your ass!Åh I shout, coming alive with fury. ÅgBill-EÅfs chained up in the cellar, twisted and
insane. MeeraÅfs unconscious, maybe comatose. And all you can warble on about?Åh
ÅgLord Loss plays chess,Åh Dervish interrupts quietly. ÅgThe Demonata are not, by nature, playful creatures,
but heÅfs an exception. I donÅft know where or when he acquired his hunger for the game, but by the time
Bartholomew Garadex met him, he was a committed player, albeit one of limited experience.Åh
ÅgWhereÅfs this going?Åh I grumble, though I have an idea.
ÅgWhen you walked in on your parents, did you notice any chess boards?Åh
Breathing thinly. Thinking back. The blood. Web-like walls. The demons. And, on the floor, scattered
chess pieces, broken boards. Plus the gouged board in the study.
ÅgYes,Åh I sigh.
Dervish talks swiftly. ÅgBartholomew played many games with Lord Loss while trying to persuade him to
help lift the curse. His familiars werenÅft allowed to pester Bartholomew at the chess board, so it was the
safest way to conduct a conversation with Lord Loss. Over time he noticed that Lord Loss cared almost
as much about chess as he did about feeding on humanityÅfs sorrow.
ÅgOn a hunch, old Bart severed connections with the demon master and avoided him for several months.
When he finally crossed the divide to the DemonataÅfs universe again, Lord Loss was surly and irritable,
eager to resume play.
ÅgBartholomew refused.Åh Dervish chuckles drily. ÅgItÅfs dangerous, riling a demon. They can be abominable
angels of destruction when offended. Lord Loss could have unleashed all of his familiars upon old Bart,
which would have been?Åh
ÅgHe has others as well as Artery and Vein?Åh I snap.
ÅgOh yes,Åh Dervish says. ÅgTheyÅfre just his current favourites. He has hundreds of familiars. If heÅfd sicced
them on Bartholomew, theyÅfd have torn him limb from limb, and all the magic in the world couldnÅft have
repelled them.
ÅgBut, as old Bart had gambled, Lord Loss didnÅft send the demons in. As intense as his anger was, his
fascination with chess proved stronger. Instead of crushing Bartholomew, he whined and complained and
tried to bargain. So Bartholomew struck for gold. He told Lord Loss he wouldnÅft play unless the demon
master lifted the curse of the Garadexes.
ÅgNo bite. Chess was an obsession, but it wasnÅft that precious to him. So old Bart tried another approach.
He proposed a series of contests in which heÅfd play for the lives of individual family members. After
lengthy discussions, they agreed to stage a number of matches, best of five games per match. For each
match that Bartholomew won, Lord Loss would cure a Garadex. But if Bartholomew ever lost, Lord Loss
would take possession of his soul.
ÅgAnd so the contests commenced, two or three games per week?Lord Loss set the rate. According to
BartholomewÅfs records, Lord Loss hated losing. Like most of the Demonata, heÅfs despisingly proud. They
consider themselves superior to humans, and to lose to one?at anything?is a great disgrace.
ÅgYet lose he did.Åh Dervish chuckles throatily. ÅgBartholomew gave his time over entirely to chess, playing
for hours on end each day and night, with the best opponents he could find, learning and improving. He
lost six games in the first three months?then never again. He hit a fifty-nine game winning streak, which
showed no sign of ending.
ÅgAnd then he died.Åh
Dervish shrugs. ÅgHe was old, and his earlier battles with Lord LossÅfs familiars had drained him. It was
peaceful in the end?he passed away in his sleep.Åh
ÅgWhat happened then?Åh I ask, absorbed in the story.
ÅgFor a long time, nothing,Åh Dervish says. ÅgNobody in our family knew of BartholomewÅfs matches with Lord
Loss. He never told them how he was affecting the cures. Several Garadexes were witches and wizards,
but they were unable to unlock the secrets of his diaries, which heÅfd encoded with strong spells.
ÅgEventually, almost forty years after the great magicianÅfs death, Davey McKay?a distant relative whoÅfd
lost four of his five children to the curse decoded the diary and discovered the demonic secret. He
immediately contacted Lord Loss in an attempt to renew the contests and reverse the change in his
youngest child, who was just starting to transform.
ÅgThe demon master was slow to respond. Bartholomew had humiliated him. He was wary of suffering
another string of defeats at the hands of a human. Also, Davey wasnÅft a magician?his soul was of only
minor interest to Lord Loss. But Davey was resourceful. He sought a twist to spike Lord LossÅfs
imagination, a challenge which would appeal to his warped sensibilities.Åh
Dervish lapses into a thoughtful silence. HeÅfs still playing with the hobbit chess piece. With his free hand,
he pulls open a drawer and takes out a photo. Slides it across the desk. I look?Mum, Dad, Gret and me.
A snap taken on one of DadÅfs birthdays.
ÅgDaveyÅfs solution was dreadful,Åh Dervish says as I stare at the photo, Ågbut it had to be. Lord Loss wasnÅft
interested in anything less. The rules he proposed were?one match, best of five games, like before. If
Davey won, his son would have his humanity restored, and both would be free. But if Lord Loss won, he
could kill both Davey and the child.
ÅgLord Loss was keen on DaveyÅfs idea, but he added a few kinks of his own. When playing Bartholomew,
heÅfd told his familiars to stand at bay. He refused to grant Davey that privilege. Somebody would have to partner Davey and fight the demons while he played. As long as DaveyÅfs protector lived, the familiars
wouldnÅft attack Davey. But if his partner was killed theyÅfd be free to slaughter Davey and his son too.
ÅgAnother new rule was that the games had to be played simultaneously, in a single sitting?to heap the
pressure on Davey and his partner. And his final clause?if Davey won, heÅfd have to enter Lord LossÅfs
realm and fight him personally for possession of his soul.Åh
ÅgWhat?Åh I mutter, not catching the meaning of the last part.
ÅgThe games take place between the DemonataÅfs universe and ours,Åh Dervish explains. ÅgYou probably
noticed in your parentsÅf room that there were bits of our world as well as bits of Lord LossÅfs. That
in-between state was where Davey would challenge Lord Loss. If Davey won, his son would be cured,
and the boy and DaveyÅfs partner could get on with their lives. But Davey would have to enter Lord LossÅfs
world and fight the demon master on his home turf. If he beat him, heÅfd walk free. But if he lost, Lord Loss
would take control of his soul, and heÅfd live out his remaining days as a zombie.Åh
ÅgSounds like a raw deal to me,Åh I grunt.
ÅgIt was,Åh Dervish agrees. ÅgBut those were the terms. Davey had to agree.Åh Dervish pauses, then says
softly, ÅgDavey lost. His brother stood as his partner. The demons overwhelmed him. Davey was killed
before even one of the games was decided. His son too. All three were ripped to pieces by the demons.Åh
He takes the photo from me and gazes at it in heavy silence.
ÅgBut DaveyÅfs sacrifice wasnÅft in vain,Åh he resumes. ÅgLord Loss developed a taste for this new contest. He
approached DaveyÅfs relatives?those with magical powers?offering them the chance to compete for
lives as Davey had.
ÅgMost refused. But two?both with young children on the verge of turning?accepted the challenge. One
was defeated?but the other won. His victory gave hope to others, and a series of Garadexes and Gradys
have sustained the challenge over the long decades since. Some win, some lose. Most who win
subsequently lose their souls in the ensuing battle in Lord LossÅfs realm, but a few have made the journey
back, proof that it can be done.Åh
Dervish lays the photo back in the drawer and closes it slowly. He blinks owlishly and wipes a hand
across his eyes?heÅfs fighting back tears.
ÅgYour parents didnÅft win,Åh he says. ÅgGret was infected. Your father and mother challenged Lord Loss. One
of them proved inadequate to the task. All three died as a result. I was meant?Åh
His voice catches and he turns away, rubbing his eyelids, trembling with emotion. ÅgYour father and I had
an agreement,Åh he says bleakly. ÅgIf any of his children succumbed to the disease, I was to be his partner.
I thought he was wrong to have children, but I loved him, and I loved the kids he fathered. I wasnÅft going
to stand to one side in their hour of need.Åh
ÅgThen why werenÅft you there?Åh I cry, tears streaming down my cheeks.
ÅgHe never told me Gret was changing,Åh he croaks. ÅgYour mother must have convinced him to let her face
the demons with him. IÅfm sure Sharon had GretÅfs best interests at heart, but I was a better chess player,
and a much stronger fighter. Cal should have held me to my promise. He should have called. Maybe I
could haveÅcÅh
He breaks down. His eyes close. His hands clench into fists. Then he raises his face to the ceiling and
howls. From the secret cellar I imagine I hear an echoing howl, as the transformed Bill-E Spleen pauses
during feeding and answers his uncleÅfs tortured call.
I stop crying before Dervish does. I donÅft think he cries very often, so he has a hard time regaining
control. When the tears finally cease and heÅfs wiping his face clean with a denim sleeve, I put an
accusation to him as softly as I can. ÅgAre you saying it was MumÅfs fault?Åh
ÅgOf course not!Åh he answers promptly.
ÅgBut if Dad had picked you instead of herÅcÅh
Dervish hesitates, choosing his words carefully. ÅgIÅfve got to be truthful?I was the logical choice. But logic
and magic donÅft always mix. Sometimes amateurs fare better than professionals. Nobody ever really
knows how theyÅfll fare until they put themselves on the spot.Åh
He pulls out a handkerchief and blows his nose. ÅgIn the end, itÅfs all relative. Your father chose?rightly or
wrongly?and the outcome stands. We canÅft change the past and weÅfd be fools if we tried.
ÅgBut whatever my personal feelings about his choice,Åh Dervish adds, ÅgdonÅft ever think I believe it was your
motherÅfs fault. It wasnÅft. It was our curse, not hers. She deserves nothing short of absolute love and
respect for taking on that curse, and laying her life on the line to try and avert it.Åh
I nod slowly, thinking it over. ÅgBut if they hadnÅft laid their lives on the line,Åh I whisper. ÅgIf theyÅfd called in the
Lambs and not gone to Lord LossÅcÅh
ÅgTheyÅfd be alive.Åh Dervish says it bluntly. ÅgThatÅfs why I said you might not like the truth. They put GretÅfs
life before their own?and yours. If they hadnÅft interfered, youÅfd have lost a sister but kept your parents.Åh
I stare at him uncertainly, my lower lip trembling, part of me hating Mum and Dad for putting me through
this, another part hating Gret, blaming her for the mess.
Dervish reads my thoughts and shakes his head calmly. ÅgDonÅft go down that road, Grubbs,Åh he says. ÅgCal
and Sharon did what they had to. TheyÅfd have done the same for you if youÅfd been infected. I know you
feel cheated. I know you want them back. But if you look deep inside, and recall the people they were, the
love they had for you and Gret, youÅfll understand why they did it.Åh
ÅgThey should have told me,Åh I moan. ÅgThey cut me out completely. I could have helped. I?Åh
ÅgNo,Åh Dervish says firmly. ÅgThe rules are clear?only two may challenge Lord Loss and his familiars.
Telling you would have achieved nothing.Åh
ÅgIt would have prepared me for the worst,Åh I disagree.
ÅgI donÅft think they wanted to think about that,Åh Dervish sighs. ÅgDoubts have a way of eating a person from
the inside out. Most who face Lord Loss choose not to focus on all that can go wrong, because it makes it
more likely that something will go wrong.Åh
ÅgBut?Åh I begin.
ÅgGrubbs,Åh Dervish interrupts curtly, Ågwe can sit here arguing all night. But that wonÅft bring your parents
and Gret back. And it wonÅft help Billy. Letting go isnÅft easy, but you have to forget about your parents for
a while. If you canÅft, youÅfre no good to me.Åh
ÅgÅeNo good to youÅf?Åh I echo, frowning. ÅgWhat are you talking about? What do you want me to do?Åh
Dervish leans forward, his features impassive. ÅgI want you to be my second,Åh he says. ÅgI want you to stand
by my side and battle Vein and Artery while I challenge Lord Loss at chess.Åh The world goes numb.
