Dragging clothes out of the washing machine. If Dervish walks in on me, IÅfll say I left money in one of my
pockets.
Underpants. Socks. Shirts. Trousers. Finally?a blue denim shirt with a small eagle insignia on the left
breast pocket. The shirt Dervish was wearing last night.
I run my nose over it. Unpleasant and sweaty, but not smoky. Not beery. Not like it would smell if heÅfd
spent a few hours in a pub.
Sitting by the phone. I want to call Bill-E, tell him about Dervish disappearing, the blood, the scentless
shirt. Except?
He might have gone to the pub like he said.
Maybe he changed shirts before he went out, after I last saw him.
The stains under his nails could have been anything.
If Bill-E hadnÅft filled my head with rubbish, IÅfd have thought nothing of Dervish slipping out without telling
me. ItÅfs not the first time heÅfs done it. He gives me plenty of space and freedom, and expects the same in
return. Nothing suspicious about that.
But what does he do when heÅfs out by himself? Where does he go? Did he really meet Meera in the
Vale?
If so, why didnÅft she come back here with him? And if he changed shirts before he went out, why isnÅft the
one he wore to the pub in the machine with the rest of his dirty laundry?
Carcery Vale. Outside the Lion & Lamb. There are several pubs in the Vale. I want to go in to them all to
check if Dervish was in town last night.
My story?Dervish lost his watch, and sent me to ask if it had been found. He canÅft remember which pub
heÅfd been in, so IÅfm doing the rounds of them all.
Holding me back?somebody might mention my queries to Dervish.
In the end I turn away from the Lion & Lamb and make for home. Not reckless or scared enough to check
on DervishÅfs alibi. Not yet.
Night. Alone in the house. Meera called in this afternoon. I wanted to ask if sheÅfd enjoyed the pub last
night, but Dervish was there and I didnÅft want to be so obvious. They left a few hours ago. Dervish told
me they were going into the Vale and not to wait up for them. Asked if IÅfd like them to bring back anything.
I said some crisps would be nice.
A truly crazy thought?what if Dervish and Meera are both werewolves? I cast that from my thoughts even
before itÅfs fully formed.
In one of the spare bedrooms, close to the lower end of the house, where the brick extension is. A clear
view of the road from here. The room across the hall has an equally good view of the rear yard and
sheds. IÅfve left the window open, so if there are any noises, I should hear them. Glued to the front window. Hoping to see Dervish and Meera staggering back from the village, singing
drunkenly. Planning cutting comments for Bill-E. Wondering if this is all a big gag designed to scare me.
IÅfll be mad as hell if it is?but relieved at the same time.
After midnight. Eyelids drooping. A clanging noise out back jolts me out of my half-daze.
I bolt through to the back room. Edge up to the open window. Peer out. The clouds arenÅft as thick as they
were earlier. An almost full moon lights most of the yard, though drifting clouds create random stretched
shadows.
Dervish and Meera are by the sheet of corrugated iron where the tree stumps are. TheyÅfre sliding it over
to one side. Behind them, on the ground, half-hidden by shadows, something large wriggles. I train my
sights on it. Moments later, the clouds drift on and moonlight falls directly on the creature.
A deer, its four hooves bound together with rope, its snout muzzled.
Dervish and Meera finish with the sheet of corrugated iron. I spot two large wooden doors set in concrete
in the middle of the ring of tree stumps. A thick chain and lock. Dervish bends to it, takes a key from his
pocket, fiddles with the lock, throws the chain to one side and hauls the doors open.
Steps leading down beneath the ground. Dervish picks up the deer and drapes it over his shoulders. It
struggles. He ignores it and starts down the steps. Meera follows, pausing to swing the doors shut behind
her.
Clouds scud across the face of the moon. I stare at the doors in the ground. Silent. White-faced. Petrified.
Waiting for Dervish and Meera to come out. Chewing my fingernails. Going back to my earlier crazy
thought?what if theyÅfre both werewolves? I try to cheer myself up by remembering his oath when I
moved in?ÅgYouÅfll be safe here.Åh Wondering if that still holds true.
Minutes pass. Ten. Fifteen. Half an hour.
Thinking?they didnÅft look different when they took the deer down. No extra hair. No sharp canines.
Wearing their normal clothes. They werenÅft howling at the moon. Dervish was able to insert the key into
the lock, so his hands couldnÅft be twisted into animal-like claws. Not the appearance or actions of
werewolves.
Forty-five minutes. Fifty. Coming up to an hour whenÅc they reappear.
But not through the doors in the ground?instead, from the kitchen!
They walk out of the house, over to the wooden doors. Dervish takes the length of chain, runs it through
the two large handles, then locks it. Both of them carefully slide the sheet of corrugated iron back over the
doors, hiding them. They drag their feet over the marks in the dirt left by the corrugated iron, masking the
tracks. Wipe their hands clean. Dervish spares the surrounding area one final glance, then they return to
the house.
As soon as they enter, I close the window and race for my room?I donÅft want them to find me here.
Under the covers, fully dressed, shaking.
Footsteps on the stairs.
I shut my eyes and feign sleep, expecting Dervish to look in on me. But the footsteps continue up to the
top floor?his study.
I wait several minutes. When there are no further sounds, I slip out of bed, undress and put on my
pyjamas, then sneak back to the rear bedroom. (I can pretend IÅfm sleep-walking if they discover me now.)
Studying the sheet of corrugated iron. Picking at the puzzle. Dervish and Meera went down the steps in
the rear yard, but came up through the house. There must be a secret passage to somewhere inside the
mansion.
Quick calculating. Flash upon the obvious answer?the cellar. The wine just a ruse. Dervish doesnÅft want
to keep me away from the cellar to protect his prize vintages, but to safeguard whatever lies beneath.
Bed. Impossible to sleep. Knees drawn up to my chest. Trembling. Clutching a silver axe which I took
from one of the walls. Praying I donÅft have to use it.
Shortly after dawn. Eyes drooping. Fingers loose on the axe handle.
The door bursts open. Meera barges in. I try to scream but my throat constricts and all I manage is a thin
squeak.
MeeraÅfs holding a bag. She jabs a hand into it. My imagination fills the bag with all sorts of horrors. I
struggle to bring the axe up but it catches on the sheets. Meera pulls a cluster of objects out of the bag
and lobs them at me. I cringe away from her, wishing I could sink through the wall behind me.
Some of the objects strike me dead in the face. I gasp, desperately swat them away, then blink with
surprise as I realise what sheÅfs throwing?
Crisps!
THE CELLAR
Dervish and Meera are still laughing in the morning. ÅgYour face!Åh Dervish chortles at breakfast. ÅgLike every
demon in hell was coming for you!Åh
As IÅfve noted before, my uncle has a twisted sense of humour.
I say nothing while Dervish and Meera enjoy their little joke, only keep my head down and focus on my
food. Dervish doesnÅft understand why I was so scared. He doesnÅft know that I saw him with the deer, that
I suspect heÅfs a werewolf, that IÅfm wondering if I can buy silver bullets on eBay. I doubt heÅfd be laughing if
he did.
The house to myself. DervishÅfs early morning runs usually last forty-five minutes to an hour. Enough time
for a quick scouting mission.
I hurry down the stairs to the wine cellar. Pause with my hand on the door. In horror movies, monsters
always lurk in the basement. But this isnÅft a movie. I mustnÅft succumb to fictional fears?not when I have
very real fears to contend with.
Creeping down the steps. Leave the door open. Checking my watch?seven minutes since Dervish left.
IÅfll allow myself half an hour, not a second more.
Pause at the bottom of the steps. Dark and cool. I shuffle forward and an overhead light winks on.
Studying the rows of wine racks. I turn full circle. My heart beats erratically. My legs feel like they belong
to an elephant?heavyyyyy. The axe in my left hand looks tiny and ineffective in the glaring light of the
cellar.
I stalk the nearest aisle, studying the floor?stone slabs, different shapes, tightly cemented together. I
pause occasionally, crouch and rap a slab with the base of my axe, listening for echoes.
None. Solid.
Left at the end. Exploring a second aisle, then a third, a fourth.
No strange-looking slabs. No echoes anywhere I rap. The joining cement between the slabs unbroken.
No trace of a hidden door.
Back where I started. Twenty of the thirty minutes have elapsed. Sweating like a pig who can smell
burning charcoal. IÅfm beginning to think I could be wrong about the cellar. Perhaps the hidden entrance is
in one of the ground floor rooms. But I wonÅft give up yet.
I scout the rim of the room, concentrating on the walls, running my fingers over the rough, dry stone,
searching for cracks.
A wine rack?ceiling-high, maybe three metres long?covers one section of the wall. My hopes rise?this
could be blocking a secret passage!?but when I lift out a couple of bottles, all I see behind is more stone
wall. I remove a few more bottles from various places but nothing out of the ordinary is revealed.
Two minutes left. This is a waste. IÅfll focus on the rooms above. Perhaps the passageway is hidden
behind one of DervishÅfs many bookcases. IÅfll start in the main hall and work my wayÅc
The thought dies unfinished. As IÅfm rising to leave, I spot a dark smudge on the floor. Stooping closer, I
move my head out of the way of the light and squint for a better view.
ItÅfs a semi-circular stain, pale, easily missed. Unmistakably a footprint.
Although there arenÅft many footprints in the cellar?Dervish keeps it really clean?this isnÅft the first IÅfve
discovered. What sets this one apart from the others is that it faces away from the wine rack, and the
mark of the heel is hidden beneath the bottles.
Gotcha!
Watching TV. Nervous. Waiting for Dervish to leave.
There was no time to examine the wine rack. Once IÅfd noted the print, I came straight up and carefully
closed the door behind me. Dervish returned a few minutes later, but I was safe in my room by then, and
had splashed my face with cold water to take away the bright red flush IÅfd worked up in the cellar.
Dervish has spent most of the day since then in his study, as he often does, reading, making phone calls,
surfing the Net. TimeÅfs dragged for me. I have only one burning desire?to get back down the cellar. Not
being able to is driving me crazy.
IÅfve been keeping a close watch on the front door?donÅft want Dervish slipping out unnoticed. I even
leave the toilet door open when IÅfm in there, so IÅfll hear him if he comes down the stairs.
So far, no joy. But IÅfm patient. He has to leave eventually. He canÅft stay cooped up here forever.
Night falls. Dervish still hasnÅft ventured outside.
Over a late dinner, I ask casually if he has any plans for the night.
ÅgThought I might hit the pub again,Åh he says, grinning sheepishly.
ÅgAre you meeting Meera?Åh
ÅgMaybe, maybe not. With the unfathomable Meera Flame, who knows?Åh
ÅgWhatÅfs the sudden great attraction about drinking in the Vale?Åh I ask.
ÅgA pretty new barmaid,Åh he laughs.
ÅgWhatÅfs her name?Åh
A pause. Then, quickly, ÅgLucy.Åh
ÅgGetting anywhere with her?Åh
ÅgSheÅfs slowly warming to my charms,Åh he chuckles. ÅgIÅfll give it another few nights. If she hasnÅft bitten by
then, IÅfll cut my losses, maybe take you and Bill-E out to see a film.Åh
He makes it sound very casual, but I know what heÅfs really doing?giving himself an excuse to stay out
after dark for the next few nights, until the full moon has come and passed.
Dervish leaves at 21:48 precisely. He sticks his head in my room as heÅfs going and laughingly tells me
not to wait up. I smile weakly in reply and say nothing about the fact that he hasnÅft changed his clothes,
slipped on a nice pair of shoes, combed his hair or sprayed under his arms with deodorant?all the things
he would have done if heÅfd truly been going out on the pull.
My uncle has a lot to learn about the art of espionage!
At the cellar door. Hesitant. IÅfd rather do this by daylight. Going down this late at night, not knowing how
long Dervish will be away or when to expect him back, is far from ideal. I consider waiting until morning,
when he goes for his daily jog and I have a guaranteed three-quarters of an hour to play with.
But IÅfve had almost no sleep these last two nights. IÅfm exhausted. I might snore through my alarm in the
morning and wake late, the opportunity missed. I donÅft dare wait.
Deep breath. Tight grip on my axe. Descent.
The wall on either side of the rack is solid, but when I remove one of the bottles, reach in and rap on the
ÅebricksÅf behind, thereÅfs a dull echo. Grunting, I grab hold of the edge of the rack and pull.
It doesnÅft budge.
I exert more pressure?same result. Try the other side?no go.
Stepping back. Analysing the problem. Look closer at the wooden rack. ThereÅfs a thin divide down the
middle. I grab sections of the rack on either side of the divide and try prying them apart. They give
slightly?a few millimetres?then hold firm.
Brute force isnÅft the answer. IÅfm convinced the divide is the key. I just have to figure out how to use it.
Studying the rack. My fingers creep to the top of one of the bottles. Idly twirl it left and right while my
brainÅfs ticking over.
IÅfm taking a step to the left, to check the sides of the rack again, when I stop and gaze down at my
fingers. I half-pull the bottle out, then push it back in. Smiling, I grab, twist and pull the bottle above, then
the one beside it. All are loose, but IÅfm sure, if I go through every bottle on the rack, IÅfll find one that isnÅft.
Methodical. Start from the bottom left, even though I suspect the device will be situated higher, towards
the middle. Checking each bottle in turn, twisting it, tugging it out, placing it back in its original position.
IÅfm leaving fingerprints all over the place?should have worn gloves?but IÅfll worry about that later.
All the way across to the right. Up a row. Then all the way across to the left. Up and across. Up and
across. Up andÅc
Getting higher. Minutes ticking away. I quicken my pace, anxious to make progress. Pull too hard on one
bottle. It comes flying out and drops to the floor. I collapse after it and catch it just before it hits and
smashes into a hundred pieces. Place it back on the rack with shaking fingers. Work at a steady, cautious
pace after that.
Past the midway mark. Four rows from the top, on the right. My hopes fading. Trying to think of some
other way to part the racks. Half-tempted to take my axe to the wood and chop through. I know thatÅfs
crazy, but IÅfm so wound up, I might just?
Seventh bottle from the right. I twist but it doesnÅft move. Everything stops. My breath catches. Step up
close to the bottle and examine it. No different to any of the others, except itÅfs jammed tight into place. I
give it a harder shake, to make sure it isnÅft simply stuck. No movement at all.
I try pulling the bottle out?it doesnÅft give.
Studying it again, frowning. My eyes focus on the cork. I grin. Put the tip of my right index finger to the
face of the cork. Push gently.
The cork sinks into the bottle. A loud click. The two halves of the wine rack slide apart, revealing a dark
corridor angling gently downwards. I do a quick mental geographical check?it leads in the direction of the
sheds.
I act before fear has a chance to deter me. Step forward. Cross the threshold. Advance.
IÅfve taken no more than eight or nine steps when the wine rack closes behind me with a soft slishing
sound. IÅfm plunged into total darkness. My heart leaps. My hands strike out to touch the walls on either
side, just so I have the feel of something real. Split-seconds away from complete panic whenÅc
Åclights flicker on overhead. Weak, dull lights, but enough to illuminate the tight, cramped corridor.
My heart settles. My eyes devour the light. I smile feebly to myself. Turn and retrace my steps. Examining
the back of the wine rack, thinking about how IÅfm going to get out later. A button in the wall to my left. I
press it. The lights flick off and the rack slides open.
I step through to the wine cellar, wait for the rack to close, then open it again and return to the corridor.
This time I keep on walking when the rack closes and IÅfm plunged into temporary darkness. Moments
later, when the lights flicker on, I glance up at them wryly and spare them a carefree half-wave.
Grubbs Grady?Mr. Cool!
The corridor runs straight and evens out after twenty metres or so. Narrow but high. Moss grows along
the walls and ceiling. The floorÅfs lined with a thin layer of gravel. By the moss, I reckon this tunnel must be
decades old, if not centuries.
The tunnel ends at a thick, dark wooden door, with a large gold ring for a handle. I press my ear to the
door but can hear nothing through it. If Dervish is in the room beyond, itÅfll be impossible to surprise him.
IÅfll just have to cross my fingers and hope for the best.
I take hold of the huge gold ring. Tug firmly. The door creaks open. I enter.
A large room, at least the size of the wine cellar. Sturdy wooden beams support the ceiling. Burning
torches set in the walls?no electrical lights. A foul stench.
I leave the door open as I step into the room and study my surroundings. A steel cage dominates the
room, set close to the wall on my right. Almost the height of the ceiling, thin bars set close together,
bolted to the floor in all four corners.
Inside the cage?the deer. Still bound and struggling weakly. Lying in a pool of its own waste. Which
explains the smell.
Advancing, giving the cage a wide berth. There are three small tables in this subterranean room. Legs
carved to resemble human forms. Surfaces overflowing with books. A chess set half hangs off of one of
them. Pens. Writing pads. Candles waiting to be lit.
Ropes and chains in one corner. No weapons. I thought thereÅfd be axes and swords, like inside the
house, but there isnÅft even a stick.
A chest?treasure! I snap it open in a rush, treasure-lust momentarily getting the better of my other
senses. Is this Lord SheftreeÅfs legendary hoard?
Bitter disappointment?the chestÅfs filled with old books and rolled-up parchment. I scrape the paper aside
and explore the bottom of the chest, in search of even a single gold nugget or coin, but come up
empty-handed.
Circling the room. Get close to the cage this time. Note a bowl set in the floor?for water, I assume. A
door with two locks, neither currently bolted. No hatch for pushing food through.
I consider dragging out the deer and setting it free, but that would reveal my having been here. I donÅft
want Dervish knowing IÅfm wise to this set-up. Not sure what heÅfd do to me if he found out.
Examining the tables. On two of them the books are layered with dust, the candles have never been
used, and the chairs are shoved in tight. On the other there are less books, a few are open, the two large
candles on the table are both half burnt down, and the chairÅfs been pulled out.
I focus on the third table. Walk around it twice without touching it. Wary of magic spells and what might
happen if I disturb anything.
I wish Bill-E was here. I should have phoned him and cooked up some story to get him to stay the night.
But I didnÅft want to drag him into this until I was sure?which IÅfm still not. So far IÅfve seen nothing to
suggest that Dervish is a werewolf, or that he uses this cell for anything more sinister than holding
captured deer.
I have to take a chance with the spells. I pull the chair back a bit more, then sit and cautiously lay my
hands on top of the table.
Nothing happens.
The lightÅfs poor here. There are matches on the table but I darenÅft light a candle?Dervish might smell it
when he returns, or notice that itÅfs burnt down more than when he left.
I study one of the open books but I canÅft make sense of the words. If itÅfs in English, itÅfs protected by
reading spells, like the books in DervishÅfs study.
I flick forward a few pages, keeping a finger on the page it was originally opened to. No pictures, though
there are a few mathematical or magical diagrams. I turn the pages back and pick up one of the other
books.
A wolfÅfs bared jaws flash at me! I gasp?raise my hands to protect myself?almost topple out of my
chair?
Then laugh hysterically as I realise itÅfs just the cover of a book under the one I picked up. I need to get a
grip. Freaking out over a picture?seriously uncool!
Laying the upper book aside, I open the one with the picture of a wolf on it. The words in this are also
indecipherable, but there are many pictures and drawings?most of creatures which are half-human,
half-wolf.
I study the photos and illustrations in troubled silence. The paintings are wilder?men with perfectly
normal upper halves, but the lower body of a wolf; women with ordinary bodies and twisted wolfen heads;
babies covered in hair, with ripped lips and jagged fangs.
But the photos are more disturbing, even though theyÅfre less grisly than the paintings. Most simply depict
malformed humans, with lots of hair, distorted faces, sharp teeth and slit eyes.
The reason theyÅfre so unsettling?theyÅfre real.
The paintings could be the work of an artistÅfs vivid imagination, but the photos are genuine. Of course IÅfm
aware that itÅfs a simple matter in this day and age to forge photographs and warp reality, but I donÅft think
these are the result of some lab developerÅfs sick sense of humour. This book has the look and feel of an
ancient tome?though some of the snaps are in colour, the colours are dull and splotchy, like in very old
photos. I donÅft think the people who put this together had the technical know-how to produce digitally
enhanced images.
The creatures in the book donÅft look familiar, though I study their faces at length. If there are Gradys or
Garadexes in there, I donÅft recognise them.
Closing the book, I pick up another lying to the right. This oneÅfs modern. Glossy photos, mostly of dead
human-wolf beasts, showing them cut open, their insides scooped out. I canÅft read it, but I know what it
is?an autopsy manual. SomebodyÅfs undertaken a study of these wolfen humans and published their
findings.
I grin shakily as I imagine what would happen if I went into a library and asked if they had any books on
werewolf autopsies!
As I lay the autopsy book aside, my eyes fall on a thin volume. Loose sheets, held together by a wrinkled
brown leather folder. Opening it, I find myself staring into the red eyes of the demon master?Lord Loss.
My fingers freeze. My throat pinches shut. ItÅfs not the picture Dervish showed me when he came to visit
me in the institute. This oneÅfs more detailed. It shows only the demonÅfs head. With terrified fascination I
study the folds of lumpy red skin, its bald crown, small mouth, sharp grey teeth. Its eyes are especially
strange?as I noted before, it seems to have only a dark red iris and pupil.
Trembling, I start to turn the drawing over, to check on the other papers in the folder?
?then stop dead at a terrible whisper.
ÅgHelloÅc GrubitsssssssssschÅcÅh
The demonÅfs voice! I release the paper and stare at the painted face?which, impossibly,
nightmarishly?stares back.
ÅgRelease me,Åh the demon on the page whispers, its thin lips moving ever so slightly, its eyes narrowing
fractionally. ÅgI hunger forÅc your pain.Åh
The painting grins.
I scream, slam the folder shut, and race sobbing for safety, imagining the demon master breathing down
my neck every frantic step of the way.
My bed. Curled into a ball on top of it. Weeping. Shaking. Fingers over my eyes. Peeping through them at
fitful intervals, waiting for the demon master and his cohorts to come.
Hours later. Footsteps on the stairs. My heart almost stops.
Panting. Eyes wide. Remembering the carnage?Mum, Dad, Gret. Praying itÅfs quick. I donÅft want to
suffer. Maybe I should take the blade of the axe to my throat before the demonsÅc
Whistling?Dervish!
I moan with relief. The footsteps stop, then start towards my room. I scurry underneath the covers and
draw them up around my chin.
Dervish opens the door and sticks his head in. ÅgYou OK, Grubbs?Åh he asks.
ÅgYes,Åh I answer weakly. ÅgJust a bad dream.Åh
ÅgI can sit with you if you want.Åh
ÅgNo. IÅfm fine. Really.Åh
ÅgSee you in the morning then.Åh
ÅgÅfNight.Åh
He only half-closes the door when he leaves. I want to rush to it and slam it all the way shut, but I donÅft
dare step off the bed?afraid Vein or Artery might be lying beneath, waiting to snap at my ankles and drag
me off into their world.
Dawn takes an age to come, but eventually the sun rises and burns my fears away with its cleansing
rays.
As the sun clears the horizon and chases the shadows of night westward, I crawl out of bed, over to the
window, and throw it open. The morning air is chilly but welcome. I gulp it down like water, my head
clearing, my shakes subsiding.
Did the painting really talk to me or did I just imagine it?
I honestly donÅft know. I think it was real. But I was extra tense. Overreacting to everything. It could have
been a hallucination.
What was definitely real?the werewolf photos. I didnÅft imagine them. TheyÅfre what I must focus on. The
Lord Loss mystery can wait. I went down the cellar to find evidence of a werewolf. And I believe I found it.
Time to call in the expert.
ÅgPaging Bill-E SpleenÅcÅh
I phone while Dervish sleeps. Ma Spleen answers, even grumpier than usual. ÅgItÅfs seven twenty-three!Åh
she snaps. ÅgHeÅfs still asleep and so was I!Åh
ÅgPlease,Åh I say calmly. ÅgThis is important. I want to catch him before he goes to school.Åh
ÅgIf you tell me, I can give him a message,Åh she sniffs.
ÅgNo,Åh I insist. ÅgI have to speak to him in person.Åh
She grumbles some more, but eventually goes to wake the snoozing master Spleen.
ÅgThis had better be life-or-death,Åh Bill-E yawns down the line a minute later.
ÅgYouÅfve got to come over,Åh I tell him directly. ÅgPretend youÅfre going to school, then come here.Åh
ÅgWhat?Åh he grunts. ÅgHave you lost your mind? I canÅft fart in these parts without Gran knowing. Skipping
school is out of?Åh
ÅgThereÅfs a full moon tonight,Åh I hiss. ÅgI donÅft want to be trapped here alone with Dervish.Åh
A cautious pause. ÅgWhatÅfs happened?Åh Bill-E asks.
ÅgCome over. Find out.Åh
I put the phone down before he can ask any further questions, confident that his curiosity will entice him.
Start thinking about what IÅfm going to tell Dervish to explain Bill-EÅfs being here.
