I donÅft expect to get much sleep the first night?new surroundings, new bed, new life?but surprisingly I
drop off within minutes of climbing underneath the covers of the small first-floor bed I chose, and donÅft
wake until close to ten in the morning.
I feel good as I use the en suite bathroom. Refreshed. The sunÅfs broken through the clouds and is shining
directly on to my bed when I come out of the bathroom. I lie on the covers and bask in the rays, smiling
softly. For a moment I think of GretÅfs en suiteÅc the rat gutsÅc the start of the nightmares. But IÅfm in too
good a mood to dwell on all that. Shaking my thoughts free, I head downstairs for a late breakfast.
IÅfm finishing off my cornflakes and munching my third slice of toast when Dervish enters through the back
door. HeÅfs been jogging. Red-faced, sweaty, panting.
ÅgI looked inÅc on youÅc earlier,Åh he gasps, rolling his neck around, jiggling his arms and legs. ÅgDidnÅft have
the heartÅc to wake you.Åh
ÅgI donÅft normally sleep this late,Åh I grin guiltily.
ÅgI should hope not.Åh He stretches, holds his hands over his head while he counts to ten, then relaxes,
pulls up a chair and sits. ÅgAny plans for today?Åh
ÅgIÅfm not sure,Åh I admit nervously. ÅgIÅfm used to having nurses plan my days for me.Åh
ÅgIÅfve been thinking about school,Åh Dervish says. ÅgIdeally IÅfd like to get you started quickly, but theyÅfre
midway through term. YouÅfd be playing catch-up from the second you sat down. I think itÅfd be easier if we
waited until after the summer, when you can go in fresh with the rest of the class.Åh
ÅgOK.Åh IÅfm relieved?I was dreading the return to school.
ÅgIf you want, I can give you some lessons, or we can enroll you for private tuition,Åh Dervish continues.
ÅgYouÅfve missed a lot, and I suspect youÅfll have to repeat a year, but if you work hard over the summerÅcÅh
ÅgIÅfm not worried about repeating,Åh I mutter. ÅgIf I was at my old school, IÅfd want to move up with my friends.
But since IÅfm starting fresh, it doesnÅft really matter which class I go into.Åh
ÅgI like the way you think,Åh Dervish smiles. ÅgOK, weÅfll lay off the heavy grinds, but fit the odd bit of learning
in along the way?youÅfll get rusty if you donÅft keep your brain sharp.Åh
ÅgWhat about today?Åh I ask. ÅgWhat should I do?Åh
ÅgGet the lay of the land,Åh Dervish suggests. ÅgExplore the house. Have a look round the grounds and
neighbouring fields?you wonÅft get done for trespassing as long as you donÅft mess with the livestock.
Maybe take a stroll to the village and let the gossips have a gawk?IÅfm sure theyÅfre dying to check out the
new boy. You can start on the household chores tomorrow.Åh
ÅgChores?Åh
ÅgSweeping, cleaning, stuff like that.Åh
ÅgOh.Åh I glance around. ÅgI thoughtÅc a place this bigÅc youÅfd have a maid or something.Åh
ÅgNo maid!Åh Dervish laughs. ÅgI have a woman who comes in once a fortnight to dust the bedrooms, but
thatÅfs it as far as outside help goes. YouÅfll have to earn your keep here, Grubbs mÅfboy! But weÅfll start with
the slave labour tomorrow, like I said. Find your feet first. Take it easy. Enjoy.Åh He rises and his
expression saddens. ÅgHell, youÅfre due some enjoyment after all youÅfve been through.Åh
I do the village first. Carcery Vale is quaint, quiet, picturesque. Nice white or creamy houses, smiling
people, the occasional car puttering down the main street. I walk through the village, familiarising myself
with the layout. I pass the school?larger than I thought. ItÅfs lunch and the students are in the yard,
shouting, laughing, playing football. I donÅft get close.
Nervous. IÅfve had months of dealing strictly with adults. IÅfve almost forgotten what people my own age are
like and how to get along with them.
Not many shops, and a very limited selection of goods. I need new clothes, but socks and underpants are
all the local stores have to offer. I suppose thereÅfs a town within easy driving distance where Dervish can
take me. IÅfll ask when I get back.
The people in the shops and on the streets eye me curiously but without suspicion. I keep expecting them
to ask for my name or pass a comment?ÅgYou must be Mr. GradyÅfs new lodger,Åh or ÅgYouÅfre not from
around here, are you?Åh?but they just nod pleasantly and let me go about my business.
Early afternoon. Wandering around the mansion. Checking out the rooms.
I knew the instant I arrived that this was a monster of a house, but itÅfs only today that I realise just how
enormous it is. It doesnÅft have a single modest inch or nook to it. EverythingÅfs overblown and over the
top. I feel out of place. IÅfm used to ordinary terrace houses, wallpaper from chain stores, furniture bought
from glossy catalogues, paperback bestsellers and brand-name reference guides on the bookshelves.
But as awkward as I feel in this massive, ornate old house, IÅfm not scared. Although it reeks of history,
and is full of barbaric weapons and grotesque items like the piranha tank, IÅfm not frightened. I donÅft get
shivers down my spine strolling through the corridors (some longer than the street where I used to live). I
donÅft imagine monsters lurking under the beds, or demons cackling in the shadows.
This house is safe. IÅfm protected within these walls. I donÅft know how I know?I just do.
The hall of portraits. IÅfve been here fifteen, maybe twenty minutes, studying the faces of my relatives.
Most are strangers, faded faces from the long-forgotten past?many of them young, just teenagers?but
some are familiar. I spot Grandad Grady, my great-aunt Martha, a few cousins I met when I was
younger?all of whom have died during the course of my short life.
I look for my picture but IÅfm not among them. Dad and Gret are though, in new frames. Recent photos. I
remember the day they were taken, last summer, when we were on holiday in Italy.
No photo of Mum. I go through them all again, but she isnÅft here. The two of us are missing.
Shopping for clothes, twenty miles from Carcery Vale, in a large mall. Lots of people and noise. I feel lost
in the crowd. Dervish sticks close by me, sensing my nervousness.
Kebabs when weÅfve finished shopping. Hot and juicy. Dervish nibbles slowly at his, delicately. I finish long
before him. Slurping down the last of my Coke. Studying him as he eats. Wondering if I should mention
MumÅfs and my absence from the hall of portraits.
ÅgAn unasked question is the most futile thing in the world,Åh Dervish says, startling me. DoesnÅft look up.
Swallows his food. Waits.
ÅgI was looking at the photos and portraits in the hall today,Åh I begin.
ÅgAnd you want to know why there are so many teenagers.Åh
I frown. ÅgNo. I mean, I noticed that, but it was Mum and me I was curious about. You have photos of Dad
and Gret, but not us.Åh
ÅgOh.Åh He grimaces. ÅgMy faux pas. Most people ask about the teens. The photos and portraits are all of
dead family members. I like to frame them as they looked at the end of their lives, so most of the photos
were taken shortly before the subjectÅfs death. We have a tragic family history?lots of us have been killed
young?which is why there are so many pubescents up there.Åh
He wipes around his mouth with a napkin, carefully balls it up and lays it aside. ÅgAs for why Sharon hasnÅft
been included, itÅfs simple?no in-laws. Everybody on those walls is a blood relative. ItÅfs a family tradition.
But IÅfve lots of photos of her, as well as Cal and Gret, in albums that youÅfre free to browse through.Åh
ÅgMaybe later,Åh I smile. ÅgI just wanted to make sure you didnÅft have any underhand reasons for not
including us with the others.Åh
ÅgEverythingÅfs above board with me, Grubbs,Åh Dervish says, then sips from his mug of coffee without
taking his eyes off me. ÅgWell?almost everything.Åh
Late. Close to midnight. In my pyjamas. No slippers?I left my old pair at the hospital and I forgot to buy
new ones today. The stone floorÅfs cold. I have to keep moving my toes to keep them warm.
IÅfm drawn back to the hall of portraits. Studying them in moonlight, the faces mostly concealed by
shadows. Focusing on the teenagers. Dozens of them, all my age or slightly older. Wondering why the
faces of the dead teens fascinate me, and why I feel uneasy.
IÅfm back in my room, in bed, before the answer strikes and drives all hope of sleep away in a flash. In the
restaurant, Dervish didnÅft simply say that many of our family members had died young?he said theyÅfd
been killed.
Settling in. Daily chores?washing-up after meals, sweeping a different couple of floors each day,
polishing the furniture in one of the large halls or rooms. Lots of other, less regular jobs?taking out the
garbage, cleaning windows, running errands in the village.
I enjoy the work. It keeps me busy. Not much else to do here apart from play chess with Dervish, watch
TV?Dervish has a massive 55 inch widescreen set, which he hardly ever uses!?and read. Chess
doesnÅft thrill me?Dervish is like Mum and Dad, a chess fanatic, and beats me easily each time we play.
IÅfd as soon not play at all, but he gently presses me to work on my game. I donÅft get my familyÅfs
obsession with chess, but I guess IÅfll just have to bear it here like I did at home.
I read more than I normally do?IÅfm not big on ÅelitrachoorÅf?but Dervish doesnÅft have a great collection of
modern fiction. I pick up a few new books in the Vale, and order some more over the Internet, but IÅfm not
spoilt for choice. I try some of the thousands of occult books littering the shelves, figuring theyÅfve got to
be better than watching the moon all night, but theyÅfre too complicated or densely written to be of interest.
So that leaves me with the TV?an endless stream of soap operas, chat shows, movies, sitcoms, sports
programmes. And while I never thought IÅfd admit such a thing, TV does get a bit boring after a while, if itÅfs
all you have to keep yourself amused.
But, hey, itÅfs a million times better than the institute!
A week passes. At ease with the house. Getting to know Dervish, though heÅfs a hard one to figure. Kind,
thoughtful, caring?but aloof, with a warped sense of humour. He came in one day while I was watching
the news. Caught a report about a serial killer whoÅfd chopped off and collected his victimsÅf heads.
Commented drily, ÅgThereÅfs a man determined to get ahead in life.Åh Spent the next five minutes doubled
over with laughter, while I gazed at him, astonished, and the TV broadcast pictures of bloodbaths and
weeping relatives.
His thirst for chess is at least equal to that of Dad and Mum, if not more so. He went easy on me to begin
with, gently encouraging me to play, treating the games as fun. Now heÅfs showing his true colours. Insists
that I play with him every night and gets irritated when I play badly.
ÅgYouÅfve got to love the game,Åh he told me last night, tossing a captured rook at me with unexpected force.
ÅgChess is life. You have to love it as you love living. If you donÅftÅcÅh
He said no more, just stormed out of the room, leaving me at a loss for words, rubbing my cheek where
the rook struck. Later, when IÅfd recovered and was passing him in the hall on my way to bed, I muttered,
ÅgGet a life, you freak!Åh The perfect comeback?just an hour too late.
HeÅfs got no time for music. I find a grand total of three CDs in the house, all old albums by some group
called Led Zeppelin. DoesnÅft read fiction. Watches only the occasional documentary on TV. Spends a lot
of time on the web, from what IÅfve seen when IÅfve visited him in his study. But he doesnÅft seem to surf or
play games?he mostly exchanges e-mails with contacts around the globe, or visits dull-looking
encyclopaedic sites.
Apart from his books and antiques, chess and jogging, and his e-mail mates, he doesnÅft seem to have
any hobbies, or any apparent interest in the world beyond this house.
There are stables?long abandoned?behind the mansion. IÅfm exploring one of them, idly toeing through
the old nails and horseshoes on the ground in search of some interesting nugget, when somebody raps
on the rotten door and startles me out of my skin.
ÅgPeace, hombre,Åh the stranger chuckles as I duck and grab a horseshoe for protection. ÅgI come to greet
you, not to eat you?as the cannibal said to the missionary.Åh
A boy a year or so younger than me enters and sticks out his hand. I stare at it a moment, then shake it.
HeÅfs a lot shorter than me, chubby, with black hair and a lazy left eye which hangs half-closed. Wearing a
faded pair of jeans and an old Simpsons T-shirt.
ÅgBill-E Spleen,Åh he says, pumping my hand. ÅgAnd youÅfre Grubbs ÅedonÅft call me Grubitsch!Åf Grady, right?Åh
ÅgRight,Åh I grin thinly, then repeat his name. ÅgBilly Spleen?Åh
ÅgBill-E,Åh he corrects me, and spells it out. ÅgActually, itÅfs really Billy,Åh he confesses, Ågbut I changed it. I
havenÅft been able to do it by deed poll yet, but I will when IÅfm older. ThereÅfs nothing wrong with Billy?itÅfs
a hell of a lot better than Grubitsch or Grubbs!?but Bill-E sounds cooler, like a rap star.Åh
He talks quick and sharp, fingers dancing in the air to accent his words.
ÅgAre you from the village?Åh I ask politely.
ÅgYup?IÅfm a Valer,Åh he yawns, as though itÅfs the dullest thing in the world. ÅgI used to live a few miles
over?in a cottage smaller than this stable?until Mum died. Then I moved in with my grandparents?Åethe
original Spleens,Åf as Mum used to call them. TheyÅfre OK, just a bit old-fashioned and strait-laced.Åh
Bill-E studies the disturbed nails and horseshoes on the ground and grins. ÅgYou wonÅft find any gold here,Åh
he chortles. ÅgIÅfve been through these sheds more times than I can count, looking for old Lord SheftreeÅfs
treasure.Åh
ÅgTreasure?Åh Bill-EÅfs a little too chummy for my liking?IÅfve never been fond of people who come along and
immediately start acting as though youÅfre old friends?but I donÅft want to say anything to insult him, at
least, not until I know a bit more about him.
ÅgYou donÅft know about the treasure?Åh He hoots as though IÅfve admitted I didnÅft know the world was round.
ÅgLord Sheftree?he owned this place years ago?is supposed to have hidden cases full of treasure
somewhere on these grounds. His getaway stash, in case he ever had to make a quick exit and needed
some ready cash. He was a real swindler. He used to keep a fish tank full of?Åh
Åg?piranha,Åh I interrupt. ÅgAnd he fed a baby to them. I know.Åh
ÅgDervish told you?Åh Bill-E looks disappointed. ÅgI love telling that story. Just about everyone in Carcery
Vale knows it, so itÅfs not often that I have the chance to break it to someone new. IÅfll kick DervishÅfs ass for
spoiling it for me.Åh
ÅgExcuse me,Åh I mutter, exasperated, Ågbut who the hell are you and what are you doing here?Åh
Bill-E blinks. ÅgNo need to speak to me like that,Åh he sniffs. ÅgIÅfm only trying to be friendly.Åh
ÅgAnd I just want to know who you are,Åh I respond coolly. ÅgYou come in here, telling me your name and that
you know all about me, but IÅfve never heard of you before. Are you a relative of DervishÅfs? A paperboy?
What?Åh
ÅgPaperboy!Åh he snorts. ÅgI donÅft think Dervish ever bought a paper in his life! If it doesnÅft come bound in
leather or batÅfs wings, packed full of spells and dark incantations, he isnÅft interested!Åh
Bill-E steps to the left, into the light shining through a hole in the roof. ÅgIÅfm no relative,Åh he says. ÅgJust a
friend. I hang out with Dervish, play chess with him, do some odd jobs. He takes me for rides on his bike
in return, and teaches me some spells. Has he taught you any spells yet?Åh
I shake my head.
ÅgTheyÅfre cool,Åh he grins. ÅgI donÅft know if most of them really work, but the words you use are wicked. I feel
like a real magician when IÅfm casting them.Åh
ÅgCould you teach me some?Åh I ask.
ÅgNo,Åh Bill-E answers promptly. ÅgThatÅfs the first thing Dervish taught me?only a teacher is allowed to
teach. He says if he ever catches me passing on my spells to anybody, heÅfll can the lessons and ban me
from coming here. And he means it?Dervish isnÅft the sort to yank your chain about stuff like that.Åh
IÅfm warming to Bill-E Spleen?I like the way he talks about Dervish?but itÅfs been a while since I made a
new friend, so instead of saying something simple, I find myself asking cynically, ÅgDid Dervish tell you to
come chat to me? Are you supposed to be my new best friend?Åh
Bill-E sneers. ÅgMy friendship canÅft be bought or bartered. I usually come over a few evenings every week
and at weekends. Dervish asked me to stay away this week, to give you a chance to settle in. I was
looking forward to checking you out and showing you around the Vale?as a fellow orphan, I thought we
might have stuff in common?but now I donÅft think IÅfll bother. YouÅfre a bit too up-your-own-ass for my
liking. IÅfll just go see Dervish and leave you to scurry around out here on your own.Åh
Bill-E turns to leave in a huff.
ÅgWhen did your mum die?Åh I ask quietly.
He stops and squints at me. ÅgNearly seven years ago. I was just a kid.Åh
ÅgAnd your dad?Åh
He smiles crookedly. ÅgI never knew him. DonÅft even know who he was. HeÅfs still alive?I think?so IÅfm not
an official orphan. But IÅfve felt like one since Mum died.Åh
ÅgMy folks only died a few months ago,Åh I say. ÅgIt still hurts. A lot. So if I act like a spazz, sorry, but thatÅfs
just the way I feel right now.Åh
Bill-EÅfs features soften. ÅgWhen my mum died, I didnÅft speak to anyone except Gran and Grandad for
almost a year. If other kids came near, IÅfd scream and attack them. Their parents stopped them hitting
back. One day, in a shop, I tried it on a kid when there was nobody around?he knocked the crap out of
me. I was fine after that.Åh
I offer my chin. ÅgTake a pop if you want.Åh
Bill-E pads over, makes a fist, then taps my chin lightly. ÅgCome on,Åh he laughs. ÅgLetÅfs go see what whirling
Dervish is up to.Åh
The study. Dervish and Bill-E catching up. Lots of names I donÅft recognise. Bill-E talking about school,
looking forward to the summer break. Dervish telling him about a new book on Bavarian sorcerers which
he bought off the web.
ÅgWhat about the eye spell?Åh Bill-E asks. He looks at me and points to his lazy left eye. ÅgIÅfm supposed to
have this operated on in a few years, but IÅfm sure Dervish can conjure up a spell to spare me the hassle.Åh
ÅgIÅfve asked around,Åh Dervish laughs, Ågbut the great magicians of yore didnÅft bother much with drooping
eyelids. Besides, magic shouldnÅft be used for personal gain, Billy.Åh Dervish always refers to Bill-E as Billy.
I guess heÅfs known him so long, he finds it hard to change.
ÅgTell that to great-great-wotsits Garadex!Åh Bill-E snorts. ÅgHe used his magic to make millions, didnÅft he?Åh
ÅgBartholomew Garadex was an exception,Åh Dervish says.
Bill-E treats the study as though itÅfs his own. Pulls books out and only half-pushes them back. Shoves
Dervish out of the way to go surfing on the web. Opens a drawer in the desk to show me the skull of a
genuine witch, Ågburned at the stake for casting lascivious spells on the virile young men of the
community,Åh he informs me, waving it around in front of his face, poking his fingers into its empty sockets.
Dervish lets Bill-E do as he pleases. Sits back and smiles patiently.
ÅgHeÅfs not normally this wound-up,Åh Dervish remarks when Bill-E goes to the toilet. ÅgYour arrival upset him.
HeÅfs used to having the run of the house. I think heÅfs worried that things are going to change now that
youÅfve moved in.Åh
ÅgWhy does he come here?Åh I ask.
ÅgHis mother and I were friends,Åh Dervish says. ÅgShe died in a boating accident, leaving Billy in the care of
his grandparents.Åh He pulls a face. ÅgAll IÅfll say about that pair is theyÅfre aptly named?Spleen! A more
cantankerous old couple you couldnÅft imagine. I felt sorry for Billy, so I started visiting and taking him out
on my bike. Ma and Pa Spleen werenÅft too keen?they still do everything they can to stop him coming
over here?but persistence is something IÅfm good at. I tend to get my own way when I really want to. The
odd persuasion spell helps.Åh He winks. I canÅft tell if heÅfs serious or joking.
Bill-E returns, shaking water from his hands. ÅgNo towels, Derv,Åh he grumbles.
Dervish raises an eyebrow at me. ÅgFresh towels are your department, arenÅft they, Master Grubbs?Åh
ÅgSorry,Åh I grimace. ÅgI forgot.Åh
ÅgIf I was you, Mr. Grady, sir, IÅfd sack Åfim,Åh Bill-E says with relish, then laughs and asks Dervish to teach
him a new spell.
ÅgWill I make the two of you disappear?Åh Dervish asks innocently.
ÅgYeah!Åh Bill-E gasps, face lighting up?then curses as Dervish shoos us out of the room and slams the
door shut behind us.
The hall of portraits. Bill-E knows the faces and names off by heart. Giving me a lecture, filling me in on
my family background. I listen with pretend politeness, only paying attention to the occasional juicy
snippet.
ÅgUrszula Garadex?pirate,Åh Bill-E intones, tapping the frame of a large canvas portrait. The woman in the
picture only has one eye, and three of her fingers are missing, two on her left hand, one on her right. ÅgA
cutthroat. Utterly merciless.
ÅgAugustine Grady. Servant to some prince or other. Cause of death?he got kicked in the head by a
horse.
ÅgJustin Plunkton?a banker. Nothing interesting about him.Åh
And so on.
After a while I ask Bill-E about the teenagers and if he knows how they died.
ÅgDervish doesnÅft say much about them,Åh he replies. ÅgI think itÅfs some ancient family curse. YouÅfll probably
go toes-up any day now.Åh
ÅgIÅfll try hard to take you with me,Åh I retort.
We come to Dad and Gret. Bill-E pauses curiously. ÅgThese are new. I donÅft know who?Åh
ÅgMy dad and sister,Åh I inform him quietly.
He winces. ÅgI should have guessed. Sorry.Åh He looks at me questioningly, licks his lips, stares back at the
photos.
ÅgAn unasked question is the most futile thing in the world,Åh I prod him.
ÅgThatÅfs one of DervishÅfs sayings,Åh he notes. Licks his lips again. ÅgDo you want to tell me how they died, or
is it a secret? I asked Dervish, but he wonÅft say, and Gran and Grandad donÅft know?nobody in the
village does.Åh
My stomach tightens. Flashes of a crocodile-headed dog, a hell-child, their eerie master. ÅgThey were
murdered.Åh
Bill-EÅfs eyes widen. His lazy left eyelid snaps up as though on elastic bands. ÅgNo bull?Åh he gasps.
My expressionÅfs dark. ÅgNo bull.Åh
ÅgDo you know who did it?Åh
ÅgI was there.Åh
Bill-E gulps deeply. ÅgWhen they were being killed?Åh
ÅgYes.Åh
ÅgHowÅfd you get away?Åh
I consider how much I should tell him. Decide to try him with the truth. ÅgThey were murdered by demons. I
escaped using magic.Åh
He frowns. ÅgIf this is a jokeÅcÅh Stops when he sees my face. ÅgDoes Dervish know?Åh
ÅgYes.Åh
ÅgHe believes you?Åh
ÅgYes. But heÅfs the only one. Everybody else thinks IÅfm making it up.Åh
Bill-E grunts dismissively. ÅgIf Dervish believes you, so do I.Åh He turns from the photos and does an odd
little shuffling dance, mumbling weird words.
ÅgWhat was that for?Åh I ask, bemused.
ÅgOne of DervishÅfs spells,Åh he says. ÅgIt makes the dead smile. Dervish says itÅfs important to keep the dead
happy. The reason this house isnÅft haunted is that Dervish keeps its ghosts laughing.Åh
ÅgRot!Åh I bellow.
ÅgMaybe,Åh Bill-E grins. ÅgBut IÅfve been dancing for years and never been bothered by ghosts. Why stop now
and run the risk?Åh
We watch MTV on the 55 inch widescreen TV, munching popcorn, drinking coke from tall paper cups just
like in the cinema.
ÅgThe TV was my idea,Åh Bill-E brags, the remote control balanced on his left knee. ÅgDervish resisted to
begin with, but I kept on at him and eventually he bought one.Åh
ÅgDoes he always cave in to your demands?Åh I ask.
ÅgNo,Åh Bill-E sighs. ÅgI can wrap Gran and Grandad round my little finger, but Dervish doesnÅft crumple. He
got the TV because I convinced him it was a good idea?his guests would get good use out of it even if
he didnÅft.Åh
ÅgYou and Dervish are close, arenÅft you?Åh I note.
ÅgStep aside, Sherlock Holmes?thereÅfs a new kid in town!Åh Bill-E chuckles, rolling his eyes.
ÅgI donÅft want toÅc likeÅc get between youÅc or anything,Åh I mumble awkwardly.
ÅgYou couldnÅft if you tried,Åh he responds smugly.
ÅgI could!Åh I bristle. ÅgHeÅfs my uncle.Åh
ÅgSo?Åh Bill-E laughs. ÅgHeÅfs my father!Åh
I stare at him, stunned.
Bill-E looks sheepish. ÅgI shouldnÅft have said that,Åh he mutters. ÅgYou wonÅft tell him, will you?Åh
ÅgNoÅc butÅc I meanÅcÅh I catch my breath. ÅgYou said you didnÅft know your father!Åh
ÅgI donÅft,Åh he says. ÅgNot officially. But it hardly takes a genius to work it out. He wouldnÅft invite me over and
make such a fuss of me if we werenÅft related. And Gran and Grandad Spleen wouldnÅft tolerate his
involvement unless they had to, no matter how close a friend of MumÅfs he was. Dervish has to be my
dad. ItÅfs logic.
ÅgHave you ever asked him?Åh
Bill-E shakes his head instantly. ÅgWhy spoil it? We get along great the way we are. If the truth ever came
out in the open, he might decide to sue for custody.Åh
ÅgWouldnÅft you like that?Åh I ask.
He shrugs. ÅgI wouldnÅft miss Gran and Grandad that much if I moved in with Dervish,Åh he admits. ÅgI could
still go and see them all the time. But if he lost, they might take out a court order to stop him seeing me. I reckon they struck a deal with him when Mum died?he could carry on visiting, or having me over to visit,
as long as he never told me who he really was. If I go messing about, it might screw up everything.Åh
I scratch my head, thinking that over. It all seems a bit complicated to me?Dervish doesnÅft strike me as
the sort to go in for such subterfuge. But IÅfm new on the scene. Bill-E has spent most of his life around my
uncle. I guess he knows what heÅfs talking about.
ÅgThis makes us cousins?if itÅfs true,Åh I note.
ÅgYeah,Åh Bill-E giggles, then pokes me in the chest. ÅgIt also makes me his son and rightful heir, so donÅft go
getting too attached to this place, Grady, because as soon as the old man kicks it, youÅfre out of here!Åh
ÅgCharming!Åh I laugh, and dump the last of my popcorn over Bill-EÅfs head.
ÅgHey!Åh Bill-E shouts, shaking kernels from his head, all over the couch and floor. ÅgClean that up!Åh
ÅgYou clean it,Åh I grin wickedly. ÅgItÅfs your houseÅcÅh
Both of us laughing, he chases me up the stairs to my room, lobbing fistfuls of popcorn at my head all the
way.
CARNAGE IN THE FOREST
Routines. Daily chores. Lots of chess competitions with Dervish and Bill-E. Dervish taught Bill-E how to
play. HeÅfs much better than I am, though his concentration wanders occasionally, so I beat him more than
I should. Watching TV. Hanging out with Bill-E. We play football and explore the countryside when weÅfre
not stuck in front of the massive screen or locking horns in chess tournaments.
IÅfm recognised in Carcery Vale now. Bill-E introduced me to the shopkeepers and gossips. They accept
me the same as any other kid. Pass the time of day with me when I come in to pick up shopping. Ask
about Dervish and what I think of the mansion. Tell me tales from its gory past, trying to spook me.
Bill-E also takes me to visit Gran and Grandad Spleen. A couple of battleaxes! Narrow-eyed,
sharp-tongued, drably dressed, their house in a state of perpetual gloominess. Grandad Spleen rambles
on about the old days and how Carcery Vale has gone to the dogs. Grandma Spleen hovers in the
background, serving tea and biscuits, eyes daring me to spill crumbs on her carpet.
Both have lots to say about Dervish, none of it good.
Not right, living out there on his own.
A house like thatÅfs too big for one man.
He should be married?but no one will have him!
If he does anything out of order, you let us know.
Bill-E smiles apologetically when we leave. ÅgI love my grandparents, but I know what theyÅfre like. I wonÅft
take you there too often.Åh
I shrug as if itÅfs no big deal, but offer up silent thanks. I donÅft know how he sticks them. IÅfd have run away from home years ago if I was caged in with a crabby old pair like that! Although, thinking twice about it, I
suppose itÅfs better to have grumpy grandparents as parents than no parents at all. I complained a lot
about Mum and Dad when they wereÅc still with me. They had their faults. I think everybody does. But I
wouldnÅft complain if they were with meÅc alive now.
The murders are never far from my thoughts. The memories of Vein, Artery and Lord Loss haunt me.
Many nights I wake screaming, arms thrashing, eyes wild, imagining demons in the room with me, under
the bed, in the wardrobe, scratching at the door.
Dervish is always there when I wake from my nightmares. Sitting by the bottom of my bed. Passing me a
mug of hot chocolate or a towel to wipe the sweat from my face. He never says much, or asks what I was
dreaming about. Leaves as soon as IÅfve settled down.
We havenÅft discussed the demons. I think Dervish wants to, but IÅfm reluctant to step back into that world
of darkness. He leaves books in my room, or open on the tables downstairs, about monsters, demons,
magic. I avoid them at first. Later I read certain passages and study pictures, attracted to the mystery of
this other realm despite my fear of it.
No pictures of my demons in the books. I glance through some of the many encyclopaedias in the
mansion, but thereÅfs no mention of a Lord Loss or his familiars in any of them.