He arrives at 09:17, schoolbag slung across his back, left eye squinting suspiciously, black hair slick with
sweat?he must have run.
ÅgCouldnÅft come any earlier or Gran would have been suspicious,Åh he says, entering by the huge front
doors, which I hold open for him like a butler. He looks around like a detective. ÅgWhereÅfs Dervish?Åh
ÅgIn his study. I told him you were coming to work on a school project with me.Åh
ÅgHe believed that?Åh Bill-E snorts.
ÅgHeÅfd no reason not to. He doesnÅft know we know about him.Åh
Bill-E looks at me smugly. ÅgSo you think IÅfm telling the truth now?Åh
I lead him through to the kitchen before answering. ÅgYes.Åh
ÅgCoolio! What changed your mind?Åh
I sit down. So does Bill-E. ÅgIÅfve seen his lair,Åh I mutter, and proceed to tell him everything about the deer,
my exploration of the wine cellar and the sub-cellar beyond (only leaving out the section relating to Lord
Loss?thatÅfs personal).
Bill-E arguing that Dervish doesnÅft pose a threat.
ÅgDonÅft you see?Åh he groans with exasperation. ÅgThe cage is for him! He knows the change is upon him.
ThatÅfs why he caught the deer and stuck it in there. Tonight heÅfll lock himself in, and when he changes
heÅfll feed upon the deer and stay caged there until morning.Åh
ÅgHow will he get out?Åh I ask.
ÅgMeera. That must be why sheÅfs here. She knows about his sickness and probably comes every month to
help him.Åh
ÅgThink back,Åh I urge him. ÅgYou say youÅfve been watching Dervish every time thereÅfs been a full moon. Has
Meera been here? Or anybody else?Åh
Bill-E shifts uncomfortably. ÅgWell, no, not every time. But?Åh
ÅgSo how does he get out?Åh I interrupt.
Bill-E thinks a moment. ÅgHe must hang the key nearby,Åh he says. ÅgHe lets himself out when the change
has passed.Åh
ÅgThen whatÅfs to stop him using it when he transforms?Åh
Bill-E rolls his eyes. ÅgHave you ever heard of a wolf that can use a key?Åh
ÅgHe used it the other night. When he brought the deer back.Åh
ÅgBut he hadnÅft transformed then,Åh Bill-E notes. ÅgYou said he looked the same as always.Åh He stands and
paces around the kitchen as he outlines his thoughts.
ÅgThis is the way it must work. During the lead-up to the full moon?and for a few nights after?DervishÅfs
hormones are all over the place. I donÅft think he physically changes, but he isnÅft in full control of himself,
which is why he wanders about the forest, hunting animals. At the same time, heÅfs human enough not to
attack people. He doesnÅft kill.
ÅgOn the night of the full moon, itÅfs different. The beast comes to the fore. It takes over. He canÅft risk
loosing it on the world. It would kill at random?animals, humansÅc whatever it found.
ÅgSo he chains himself up.Åh Bill-E clicks his fingers with excitement. ÅgHe locks himself in the cage, ensuring
thereÅfs a live animal for the beast to rip to pieces and feed on. He stays there all night, howling,
transformed, wild. In the morning, when the phase passes, he lets himself out and carries on as normal.Åh
Bill-E stops and smiles warmly. ÅgIÅfve always admired Dervish, but never as much as I do right now. HeÅfs
dealing with his curse. Living as normal a life as he can, yet protecting the world from the monster within
him, locking himself away when he must, enduring the loneliness and hardshipÅcÅh
ÅgStop,Åh I remark sarcastically. ÅgYouÅfll make me cry.Åh
Bill-E whirls on me angrily. ÅgWhat did you call me for?Åh he barks. ÅgIf it was just to sneer, I can leave as
quickly as I came!Åh
ÅgIt wasnÅft to sneer,Åh I mumble. ÅgI asked you here to help.Åh I stare miserably at him. ÅgIÅfm scared. If he
changes tonight and comes after meÅcÅh
ÅgHe wonÅft,Åh Bill-E says confidently. ÅgThe cage is there to prevent that.Åh
ÅgMaybe,Åh I nod. ÅgBut IÅfm not sure I want to run the risk. I was thinking I could maybe come stay with you for a night or twoÅc?Åh
Bill-E blinks. ÅgIÅfve never had a friend over to stay,Åh he says. ÅgI donÅft think Gran and Grandad would like it.
Especially not after you woke them up this morning.Åh His face brightens. ÅgTell you what. IÅfve a better
idea?IÅfll come and stay here!Åh
ÅgWhat will that achieve?Åh I frown.
ÅgIÅfm fatter than you,Åh he laughs, patting his stomach. ÅgIf the werewolf gets free, itÅfll go for me first, since
IÅfm so tasty-looking. ThatÅfll give you a chance to run for freedom.Åh
ÅgYouÅfre crazy,Åh I huff.
ÅgOf course I am,Åh he smiles. ÅgAfter all, IÅfm a Grady!Åh
A long, tense day. Bill-E, despite his good-humoured assertions that we have nothing to be afraid of, is
just as nervous as me. In some ways heÅfs worse?he looks very pale and has been sick a couple of
times. He says itÅfs some bug heÅfs had for the last few days, but IÅfm sure itÅfs nerves.
ÅgMaybe you should go home,Åh I suggest as he returns from his latest vomit trip to the toilet. ÅgYou wonÅft be
much use throwing up all the time.Åh
ÅgDonÅft be too sure,Åh he smiles thinly. ÅgPerhaps I can repel the werewolf with puke.Åh
ÅgThatÅfs one I never saw in the movies!Åh I laugh.
Bill-E has to leave in the afternoon, to check in with Ma and Pa Spleen and pretend heÅfs been to school.
ÅgIÅfll have a quick meal, do some homework, then tell Gran IÅfm coming here for the night?IÅfll say itÅfs part of
a nature project, that IÅfm doing an essay on the habits of nocturnal creatures.Åh
ÅgNot so far from the truth,Åh I grimace.
In my room. Alone. A knock on the door?Dervish. ÅgWhereÅfs Bill-E?Åh
ÅgHe had to go home.Åh
ÅgThatÅfs a shame?I was going to cook pancakes. IÅfve a sudden craving for them.Åh
I start to tell Dervish that Bill-EÅfs returning to stay the night. Before I can, he says, ÅgI have to head out
later.Åh
ÅgOh?Åh
ÅgIÅfm meeting Meera. WeÅfre going to see some old friends. I could be gone all night. YouÅfll be OK by
yourself?Åh
I nod wordlessly.
ÅgIÅfll give you a shout before I go,Åh he promises.
On the phone to Ma Spleen, asking for Bill-E. ÅgHe just got home from school,Åh she says frostily. ÅgHeÅfs
eating.Åh
ÅgItÅfs important.Åh
ÅgEverything seems to be important today,Åh she grumbles, but calls him to the phone.
ÅgWhen you return, enter by the back door and try not to let Dervish see you,Åh I tell him.
ÅgWhy?Åh he asks.
ÅgHe just told me heÅfs going out for the night. He thinks IÅfm going to be here by myself.Åh
ÅgSo?Åh
ÅgLetÅfs quit with the seen it all, done it all act,Åh I snap. ÅgIf Dervish is what we think, there could be trouble
tonight?real trouble. If he doesnÅft know youÅfre in the house, he wonÅft expect to find you if he gets free
later. That might work in our favour in case of an attack.Åh
ÅgThere wonÅft be an attack,Åh Bill-E insists.
ÅgMaybe?but come in by the back anyway, OK?Åh
A momentÅfs pause. Then, in a subdued tone, Bill-E mutters, ÅgOK.Åh
Bill-E sneaks in without Dervish spotting him. Hides in my room. We keep the door shut and our voices
low when we speak?which isnÅft often. I keep a firm hold on the axe IÅfve been lugging about for the past
few nights. Bill-E still doesnÅft believe weÅfre in any danger, but he has a short sword lying on the bed close
by, which I fetched for him from downstairs.
HeÅfs in a terrible state, white and shivering. HeÅfs been sick three times in the space of the last couple of
hours. I see now that it isnÅft nerves?he really is ill.
ÅgYou should be home in bed,Åh I whisper as he wraps blankets around himself and gulps down a glass of
warm milk.
ÅgI feel like death,Åh he groans, eyes watering.
ÅgDo you want to leave?Åh
He shakes his head firmly. ÅgNot until morning. IÅfm going to see this through with you, to prove that Dervish
isnÅft a killer.Åh
ÅgBut what if?Åh
He stops me with a quick cutting motion. ÅgHeÅfs coming!Åh he hisses, and tumbles off the bed, dragging his
blankets and empty glass with him, lying flat on the floor, holding his breath.
I sit up in bed and open a comic, which I pretend to read.
Moments later, Dervish knocks and enters. ÅgComing for dinner?Åh
ÅgNo thanks?not very hungry tonight.Åh
He sniffs the air, nose crinkling. ÅgIt smells of sick in here.Åh
ÅgYeah.Åh I laugh sheepishly. ÅgI threw up earlier. Think it was something I ate.Åh
ÅgYou should have told me.Åh He walks over and lays the back of his hand against my forehead. If he bends
forward just a few centimetres more, heÅfll spot the prone Bill-E SpleenÅc
ÅgNo fever,Åh Dervish says, stepping back.
ÅgOf course not. Like I said?something I ate.Åh
ÅgI hope thatÅfs all it is.Åh He looks troubled. Checks his watch, then glances out the window. ÅgIf you get sick
again later, I wonÅft be here to drive you to the doctor. Maybe I should take you into the Vale for the night.Åh
ÅgThatÅfs OK,Åh I say quickly. ÅgIÅfm fine.Åh
ÅgYouÅfre sure?Åh
I cross my heart and smile blithely. ÅgNever felt better.Åh
ÅgHmmÅcÅh He doesnÅft look happy, but takes me at my word. ÅgWant me to drop you up anything from the
kitchen?Åh
ÅgNo thanks?IÅfll wander down later and grab something light.Åh
ÅgSee you tomorrow then.Åh
ÅgTomorrow,Åh I smile, and hold the smile in place until he exits.
ÅgPhew!Åh I gasp when the coast is clear. ÅgYou can get up now.Åh
Bill-E rises from behind the bed like a ghost, grinning sickly. Then his face blanches, he clutches his
stomach and rushes for the toilet.
I raise my eyes to the heavens and sigh. Of all the nights he could have picked to be sick, why this one!
Night. The moon rising. A roar from the corridor?ÅgIÅfm off!Åh
ÅgBye!Åh I shout in reply. A quick shared glance with Bill-E, then we both rush to the room behind this
one?with a view of the rear yard?and press up against the circle of stained glass, watching to see what
Dervish does.
ÅgBet he heads straight down the cellar,Åh Bill-E says confidently.
ÅgI hope so,Åh I sigh.
Moments later Dervish emerges and walks to the sheet of corrugated iron close to the sheds. He carefully
removes it, unlocks the chains and casts them aside. Bill-EÅfs smiling knowingly?but the smile fades
when Dervish drags the sheet of corrugated iron back over the doors, turns and heads off in the direction
of the forest.
ÅgWhat do we do now?Åh I ask quietly.
ÅgHe might just be going toÅcÅh Bill-E starts, but hasnÅft the heart to finish.
ÅgTwo choices,Åh I growl. ÅgWe let him go?or we follow.Åh
ÅgYou want to go into the forest after him?Åh Bill-E asks uncertainly. ÅgIf he transforms out there and the
beast spots usÅcÅh
ÅgAt least we know what to expect, and weÅfre prepared,Åh I grunt, hefting my axe. ÅgNobody else knows what
he is. If we let him go and he killsÅcÅh
Bill-E rolls his eyes, but says sullenly, ÅgWeÅfll follow.Åh
Hurrying from the room. In the hall downstairs, Bill-E stops to grab a sword, longer and sharper than the
one I gave him earlier. While heÅfs at it, he plucks a couple of knives, sticks one in his belt, hands the other
to me. ÅgDouble security,Åh he says.
ÅgI like your thinking,Åh I grin shakily.
Then weÅfre gone?frightened, courageous, crazy?tracking a werewolf.
AROOOOO!
Slipping away from the house. Creeping around the sheds. Entering the forest. Moving cautiously, Bill-E
leading the way. A bright night. Very few clouds to block out the worryingly full moon. But dark under
cover of the trees. Countless spots where a creature could lie in ambush.
ÅgWhich way did he go?Åh I whisper as Bill-E pauses and stoops.
ÅgThat way,Åh Bill-E replies a few seconds later, pointing left.
ÅgHow do you know?Åh
ÅgFootprints,Åh he says, tapping the ground.
ÅgWho made you Hia-bloody-watha?Åh I scrunch up my eyes but canÅft see any prints. ÅgAre you sure?Åh I ask,
wondering if heÅfs deliberately leading me astray.
ÅgPositive,Åh Bill-E says, then stands and stares at me, troubled. ÅgIf he sticks to this course, heÅfs heading for
the Vale.Åh
I stare back silently. Then we both turn without a word and resume the chase?faster, with more urgency.
Running. Ducking low-hanging branches. Leaping bushes. Bill-E comes to a sudden halt. I run into him.
Stifle a cry.
ÅgI see him,Åh Bill-E says softly ÅgHeÅfs stopped.Åh
I peer ahead into the darkness?canÅft see anything. ÅgWhere?Åh
ÅgOver there,Åh Bill-E points, then crouches. I squat beside him. ÅgWeÅfre on the edge of the forest. Carcery
ValeÅfs only a minuteÅfs jog from here.Åh
ÅgYou think heÅfs going to attack someone in the village?Åh I ask.
Bill-E tilts his head uncertainly. ÅgI canÅft believe it. But I donÅft see any other reason why he would come
here. Maybe?Åh
He spins away abruptly, covering his mouth with his hands. Lurches through the bushes. Twigs snap.
Leaves rustle. He collapses to the floor and throws up over a pile of twigs.
My gaze snaps from Bill-E to the trees ahead. Clutching the handle of my axe so tightly it hurts. Waiting
for Dervish to hear the commotion and investigate.
Half a minute passes. A minute. No movement ahead.
Bill-E shuffles up beside me. Rests in the shadow of a thick bush. Breathing heavily. Chin specked with
vomit. ÅgI canÅft go on,Åh he groans. His voice cracks as he speaks. His whole bodyÅfs trembling.
ÅgHow bad are you really?Åh I ask, searching for him in the shadows, only able to make out the dark outline
of his face.
ÅgLousy.Åh He chuckles drily. ÅgI should have listened to you earlier?gone home to bed. I need a doctor.Åh
ÅgYour house isnÅft far from here,Åh I note. ÅgI could take you there.Åh
ÅgWhat about Dervish?Åh
ÅgIs he still where you said he was?Åh I ask.
Bill-E parts the bush above him, half-kneels and stares dead ahead. Silence for a few seconds.
Then?ÅgStill there.Åh
ÅgIÅfll take you home,Åh I decide, Ågthen circle back.Åh
ÅgBut you canÅft track him like I can,Åh Bill-E demurs. ÅgYou need me.Åh
ÅgIÅfll get by,Åh I override him. ÅgThe way you are now, youÅfre a liability. ItÅfs only pure luck that he didnÅft hear
you a few minutes ago. YouÅfre useless like this.Åh
ÅgGrubbs Grady,Åh Bill-E giggles hoarsely. ÅgTells it like it is.
ÅgCome on,Åh I mutter, offering him a hand up. ÅgThe quicker we go, the sooner I can pick him up again.Åh
Bill-E hesitates, then grabs my sleeve and staggers to his feet. ÅgSorry about this,Åh he mumbles, bent over,
hiding his face, ashamed.
ÅgDonÅft be stupid,Åh I smile, wrapping an arm around him. ÅgI couldnÅft have tracked him this far without you.
Now?letÅfs go.Åh
Bill-EÅfs house lies almost straight ahead, but Dervish is blocking the direct route. So we skirt around him
and stumble further through the forest, until we find a spot downhill where he hopefully wonÅft be able to
see us.
ÅgWalk or run?Åh I ask.
Bill-E doesnÅft answer immediately?his breath is ragged and heÅfs trembling. Then he sighs and says,
ÅgWalk. More noiseÅc if we run.Åh
Holding Bill-E tight?I think heÅfd collapse if I let go I start ahead, into the moonlit clearing.
Stomach like a coiled spring as we leave the cover of the forest. I face forward, not wanting to trip over
anything, but my eyes keep sneaking left, scouring the trees for signs of my uncle.
ÅgCan you see him?Åh I hiss out of the side of my mouth.
Bill-E only groans in reply and doesnÅft look round.
Getting close to the houses on the outskirts of Carcery Vale. Dark back yards. Lights in kitchen and
bedroom windows. A woman cycles towards us, parallel to the forest. She waves. I start to wave back.
Then she turns right and I realise she was only signalling.
Coming up to the houses. ThereÅfs a road behind them, where most of the residents park. We make the
road and close in on the Spleen residence. I start to think about what Ma Spleen is going to say, and what
will happen when she phones Dervish to complain about the condition he let her grandson walk home in.
Perhaps I should take Bill-E directly to a doctor. ItÅfs late but IÅfm sure?
Bill-E gasps painfully and collapses. He dry retches and paws at the pavement, whining like a wounded
animal.
ÅgWhatÅfs wrong?Åh I cry, dropping beside him. I reach to examine his face, but he brushes my hands away
and snarls. ÅgBill-E? What is it? Do you want me to?Åh
ÅgGrubbs?step away.Åh
A harsh voice, straight ahead of me. Slowly, trembling, I stand and stare.
Dervish!
My uncleÅfs standing between us and the rear garden gate of Bill-EÅfs home. No way past. HeÅfs illuminated
by moonlight. A long hypodermic syringe in his right hand. Eyes ablaze with anger. ÅgMeera,Åh he says,
gaze flicking to a spot behind me. I glance back. A momentÅfs pause, then Meera steps out from behind a
van. My head spins. I remember an earlier mad thought?ÅgWhat if theyÅfre both werewolves?Åh
Dervish starts walking towards me.
ÅgStop!Åh I moan, warning him off with my axe.
ÅgStep away, Grubbs,Åh he says again, not slowing. ÅgYou donÅft know whatÅfs happening.Åh Then, to Meera,
ÅgBe careful. Block his escape, but donÅft get too close.Åh
ÅgI know what you are,Åh I sob, tears of fear springing to my eyes. ÅgIf you come any closerÅcÅh
ÅgDonÅft interfere,Åh Dervish snaps. ÅgI donÅft want to hurt you, but if you donÅft step aside, IÅfll?Åh
He comes within range. I swing at him with my axe. Tears impair my aim?I swing high. Dervish curses
and ducks. I take another blind swing. He shimmies closer as IÅfm swinging, dodges the blade, chops at
my axe arm with his free left hand.
My arm goes numb from the elbow down. The axe drops to the ground. I dart after it. Dervish grabs the
back of my collar and yanks me aside. I crash into a car. HeÅfs upon me before I have time to recover.
Wraps his left arm around my throat. Exerts pressure.
ÅgDervish!Åh Meera gasps.
ÅgItÅfs OK,Åh he pants. Then, to me, as I struggle for my life, ÅgEasy! WeÅfre on the same side.Åh
ÅgLet go!Åh I wheeze. ÅgI know what you are! Let?Åh
Low growling. Animalistic. Wolfen.
But not from Dervish.
From ahead of us.
Dervish releases me. I stand rooted to the spot. Eyes wide. Staring at the beast as it rises to its feet and
snarls. A contorted face. Yellow eyes. Sharp cheekbones. Dark shadows. Open mouth full of bared teeth.
It raises a hand?dark skin, long nails, fingers curled into claws.
And I realise, about a million years late, that a monster has breached the barriers of Carcery Vale
tonight?but itÅfs not Dervish.
The werewolfÅfs Bill-E Spleen!
FAMILY TIES
ÅgBill-E?Åh I moan. He glares at me, naked hate filling his abnormal yellow eyes. ÅgBill-EÅc itÅfs meÅc Grubbs.Åh
ÅgHe doesnÅft recognise you,Åh Dervish says, stepping to the left. Bill-EÅfs eyes snap to the adult and he
crouches defensively. Behind him, Meera takes an automatic step backwards. ÅgNo!Åh Dervish barks. ÅgDonÅft
move! YouÅfll attract?Åh
Too late. Bill-EÅfs head swivels. He spots Meera. Leaps.
Meera gets out the start of a scream. Then the beast is upon her, hissing as he hauls her to the ground.
They land hard, Meera underneath. She tries to throw the animal off. He grabs her hand and bites hard
into the flesh. She starts to curse, but is cut short by the creatureÅfs fist?it crushes into the side of her face. Meera chokes, stunned. The beast grabs both sides of her head and smashes her skull down hard
on the pavement. The fight goes out of her. Teeth glinting in the moonlight, fastening around MeeraÅfs
throat. The monsterÅfs about to rip her head off and all I can do is stand here and gawp like an idiot.
But Dervish isnÅft so helpless. He moves as fast as Bill-E, and gets there a split-second before he bites.
Grabbing Bill-EÅfs ear, he tugs hard. The creatureÅfs head jerks clear of MeeraÅfs throat. He whines and
lashes out. Dervish ducks the blow. Shoves the animal down hard, head first. Pins it with his right knee,
digging it hard into the boy-beastÅfs back. Brings up his right hand and jabs the tip of the syringe into the
side of Bill-EÅfs neck. Pushes on the plunger. The liquid in the barrel disappears into Bill-EÅfs veins.
Bill-E stiffens and groans. Dervish whips the syringe out and tosses it aside. Bill-E thrashes wildly.
Dervish uses both hands and knees to hold him down.
Mad seconds pass. Bill-E stiffens again. More thrashing. Stiffens for the third time?then collapses, eyes
closing, limbs limp.
Dervish lays Bill-EÅfs head down, then shoots to MeeraÅfs side. ÅgMeera?Åh he mutters, checking her pulse,
putting his ear to her lips, rolling her eyelids up. No response. He straightens her legs and arms, checks
on Bill-E, looks around to see if anybodyÅfs noticed the scuffle?but the road is deserted except for us. He
turns to face me.
ÅgYou bloody fool,Åh he snarls.
I stare blankly at my uncle, then slide to the ground and give myself over to bewildered tears.
Dervish lets me cry myself dry, then hands me a handkerchief and says gruffly, ÅgClean yourself up, then
help me with Billy and Meera.Åh
I wipe my face with the handkerchief. Stand, still sniffling.
ÅgYou thought I was a werewolf?Åh Dervish asks.
ÅgYes,Åh I answer hollowly.
ÅgYou ass,Åh he says, and manages a ghost of a smile. ÅgThereÅfs nothing more dangerous than someone
half-close to a terrible truth. What would you have done if I was? Taken that axe to me? Chopped me up
into little bits? Buried me in the forest and told the police IÅfd gone out walking and never returned?Åh
ÅgI donÅft know,Åh I moan. ÅgWe didnÅft think that far ahead. We thought youÅfd lock yourself up in the cage in
the cellar. When you started for the Vale, we?Åh
ÅgYou know about the cellar?Åh he interrupts. ÅgYouÅfve been there?Åh
ÅgYes. Not Bill-E?just me. I saw the cage, the deer, the booksÅcÅh
Dervish snorts, disgusted. ÅgI knew youÅfd sniff it out eventually, but not this quick. I underestimated
you?Sherlock Grady.Åh
He bends, ties Bill-EÅfs legs together, then his hands. He slips a gag between the unconscious boyÅfs jaws,
then picks Bill-E up and drapes him over his shoulders, much as he carried the captured deer.
ÅgWhat are you going to do with him?Åh I whimper, flashing on images of Dervish cutting Bill-EÅfs throat, or
caging him up for life.
Dervish grunts. ÅgWeÅfll discuss that later. First we have to get him home. HeÅfll be safe once we lock him in
the cage?thereÅfs water, and he can feed on the deer. WeÅfre exposed here.Åh
ÅgBut?Åh I begin.
ÅgSave it,Åh Dervish snaps. ÅgWe need to move?now! I donÅft want to be the one to try explaining to Ma
Spleen that her grandsonÅfs a werewolf!Åh
I smile fleetingly, then put the questions on hold. Dervish carries Bill-E to the van which Meera had been
hiding behind. He pulls the rear door open and bundles Bill-E inside, then returns for Meera. IÅfm too
terrified and ashamed to ask if sheÅfs alive or dead. Instead I pick up my axe, Bill-EÅfs dropped sword and
the syringe?my right arm tingles fiercely where Dervish hit me, but I can use my hand now?and put
them in the back of the van beside the bodies. Dervish closes the door on the beast and the woman.
Then we climb in up front and drive back to the mansion.
For a full minute I say nothing, as if this is an ordinary drive home on a normal night. Dervish
concentrates on the road, driving slowly for once in his life. His hands are shaking on the steering wheel. I
watch him change gears. Then, unable to hold the questions back any longer, I spit it out.
ÅgYou knew Bill-E was a werewolf.Åh
ÅgObviously.Åh
ÅgHow long have you known?Åh
ÅgA few months. Since he started wandering the forest in a daze around the time of a full moon, killing
animals.Åh His head turns briefly. ÅgYou know about that?Åh
ÅgYes. ThatÅfs what put us on to you. Bill-E saw you collecting the bodies and getting rid of them in the
incinerator.Åh
Dervish winces. ÅgBy disposing of the kills, making sure nobody else found them, I hoped to avoid
suspicion and protect him. Guess I was a little too smart for my own good.Åh
I look back over the seatÅfs head rest. I can see Bill-E and Meera. MeeraÅfs chest is rising and
falling?sheÅfs alive. I study Bill-EÅfs face. No hair. No fangs. But his skinÅfs a darker shade than usual, his
fingernails have sprouted, and his cheekbones have definitely changed shape?albeit slightly. And his
eyes, if they were open, would be that eerie yellow colour. And his mouthÅc those teethÅc
ÅgWhy didnÅft you tell me?Åh I ask softly.
ÅgThat your best friendÅfs a werewolf?Åh Dervish snorts.
ÅgIÅfd have believed you if youÅfd shown me proof. I was ready to believe it about you?I could have believed
it about Bill-E too.Åh
ÅgPerhaps,Åh Dervish sighs. ÅgBut I hoped to spare you, the way IÅfve spared Billy. I didnÅft know until tonight
how damaging the change would be. Sometimes the madness touches us but passes. I was praying that
he was merely moon-sick, that the disease was weak in him and wouldnÅft take hold.Åh
Dervish drives in silence for a while, gathering his thoughts. I donÅft say anything, waiting for him to
choose how to explain.
ÅgHow much of this have you guessed?Åh he asks eventually. ÅgTell me what you think you know.Åh
ÅgThe Gradys are cursed,Åh I answer directly. ÅgSome of us turn into werewolves. ItÅfs been happening for
centuries.Åh
ÅgPretty good,Åh Dervish commends me. ÅgOnly it goes back a lot further than centuries, and itÅfs not just
Gradys?itÅfs the entire family line. What else?Åh
I shrug. ÅgNot much. We thought you had the disease, but that you could control it, or at least lock yourself
up when the moon was full.Åh
ÅgNobody can control lycanthropy,Åh Dervish says quietly. ÅgWhen the disease takes hold?as it has in Billy
tonight?youÅfre doomed. The change takes a couple of months, but once the wolf comes to the fore, the
human never resurfaces.Åh
ÅgYou mean Bill-EÅfs gone? HeÅfsÅcÅh
I canÅft continue. A terrible weight settles upon me.
ÅgNot quite,Åh Dervish says, and the weight lifts as suddenly as it fell into place.
ÅgWe can save him?Åh I ask, excited. ÅgWe can reverse the change?Åh
ÅgThere is a way,Åh Dervish nods. ÅgBut weÅfll talk more about that later?and whether or not we wish to
chance it.Åh
ÅgWhat do you mean?Åh I snap. ÅgOf course we?Åh
ÅgYour sister had the disease,Åh Dervish interrupts softly. I stare at him, horrified. ÅgTo save Billy, weÅfll have
to deal with Lord Loss, as your parents did. And if we do, we run the very real risk of winding up dead like
them?Billy along with us.Åh
ÅgWhat doesÅc heÅc have to do with this?Åh I croak.
ÅgLater,Åh Dervish says. ÅgOne mystery at a time. WeÅfre nearly home. LetÅfs get Billy locked away safe and
sound?then IÅfll tell you all about it.Åh
We pull up around back of the mansion, close to the tree stumps. Dervish turns off the engine and asks
me to remove the sheet of corrugated iron and open the doors leading down to the secret cellar. He
bundles the pair of unconscious bodies out of the back of the van while IÅfm doing that.
ÅgDid you gain access this way or through the wine cellar?Åh he asks while IÅfm pulling the doors open.
ÅgThe wine cellar,Åh I pant?the doors are heavy.
ÅgClever monkey,Åh he chuckles. ÅgYouÅfll have to tell me about it?some other time. WeÅfve more pressing
matters to deal with first.Åh He picks Bill-E up and nods me forward.
Down the steps. Steep. Dark. Have to tread carefully, feeling for each stair.
ÅgDo you need any help with Bill-E?Åh I ask over my shoulder.
ÅgNo,Åh Dervish replies, coming down, blocking out the light of the moon. ÅgIÅfll be fine. Dart ahead and light
some extra candles.Åh
I proceed to the bottom of the stairs, where I find a door. Pushing it open, I enter the cellar. Studying the
entrance IÅfve just come through, I note that the material on this side of the door is disguised to look like
part of the wall, which is why I didnÅft spot it during my previous visit.
As IÅfm lighting candles on the main table?keeping as far clear of the Lord Loss folder as I can?Dervish
stumbles in, goes to the cage, opens it with his left foot and sets Bill-E down beside the deer. He makes
sure Bill-EÅfs comfortable, then locks the door and removes the key.
ÅgDonÅft go anywhere near the cage when he wakes,Åh Dervish says. ÅgHeÅfll howl like the devil, throw himself
wildly at the bars?possibly injuring himself in the process?but steer clear, regardless. All he needs is a
sliver of a chance to rip you open.Åh
ÅgIÅfll bear that in mind,Åh I comment drily.
Dervish goes back up the steps and returns a minute later with Meera. He lays her down, smoothes her
hair back, stares at her bruised, motionless features.
ÅgHow is she?Åh I ask, dreading the answer.
ÅgOK, I think,Åh Dervish says, and my fear lessens. ÅgBut sheÅfll be out for a while. He cracked her head hard
on the pavement. We should get her to a doctor, have her checked over?but there isnÅft time. IÅfll take her
to the house, out of harmÅfs way, beforeÅc before we see to Billy. WeÅfll just have to hope for the best after
that.Åh
Dervish stands, walks around behind the desk and collapses into his chair, sighing deeply. He tells me to
pull up one of the other chairs, but I prefer to stand?too nervy to sit.
ÅgI want to know about werewolves,Åh I tell him bluntly. ÅgI want to know what Lord Loss has to do with them,
how you know Gret had it, and how we reverse it in Bill-E.Åh
Dervish nods. ÅgReasonable questions. But IÅfm surprised you havenÅft asked the most obvious one?since
this is a family disease, passed on from one generation to the next, how come Billy has it?Åh
ÅgI know all about Bill-EÅfs connection to our family,Åh I huff.
Dervish stares at me, slack-jawed. ÅgCare to tell me how?Åh
ÅgBill-E figured it out years ago. Like he said, it didnÅft take a genius to guess that you were his father. Now
tell me about?Åh
ÅgWhat?Åh Dervish yelps, jerking forward. ÅgHe thinks IÅfm his dad?Åh
ÅgOf course.Åh I frown. ÅgArenÅft you?Åh
Dervish sits back. Groans and shuts his eyes. ÅgIÅfm a horseÅfs ass,Åh he snarls. ÅgI should have seen that
coming. How can I have gone all these yearsÅcÅh
He clears his throat and levels his gaze on me. ÅgPull up a chair,Åh he commands. ÅgIt sounds like a bad
movie cliche, but youÅfre going to want to sit down for this.Åh
I start to come back with a sarcastic reply. Spot the steel in his eyes. Drag over a chair and sit opposite
Dervish, like a student before a teacher.
ÅgThereÅfs probably some diplomatic, sensitive, compassionate way to put this,Åh Dervish says, Ågbut one
doesnÅft spring readily to mind, and I donÅft have time to go searching. So IÅfll put it plainly, no matter how
upsetting it might be. IÅfm not BillyÅfs father?IÅfm his uncle.Åh
I stare at Dervish uncertainly. ÅgI donÅft understand.Åh
ÅgPeople arenÅft perfect, Grubbs,Åh he mutters. ÅgEven the best of us make mistakes. LifeÅfs complicated. We
allÅcÅh He clears his throat. ÅgYour mother never liked me, and made no secret of the fact.Åh
ÅgWhatÅfs that got to do with?Åh I start, but he silences me with a gesture.
ÅgI visited Cal a few times over the years. She accepted that. But except for a single trip here years ago,
she refused to step foot in Carcery Vale. So Cal used to come by himself. It was a serious bone of
contention between them. I tried many times to talk to Sharon about it, but she wouldnÅftÅcÅh
Dervish trails off into a brooding silence, then begins again. ÅgYour father loved your mother?and you and
Gret?but he wasnÅft a saint. He travelled a lot, on business, alone?but he didnÅft always sleep alone.Åh
I leap to my feet, furious at what Dervish is suggesting. But before I can lay into him, he continues quickly.
ÅgThey were one-night stands or short affairs. Meaningless. Sharon never found out?or so Cal told me.
My brother had many admirable qualities, but fidelity wasnÅft one of them. He never wished to hurt your
mother, but he couldnÅft remain true to her. It wasnÅft in his nature.Åh
ÅgWhy are you telling me this?Åh I hiss, fingers clenched into fists, tears in my eyes.
Dervish looks at me sideways, as though IÅfm a fool for asking. ÅgBecause one year he had an affair with a
Valer while he was staying with me. And the woman wound up pregnant. She didnÅft tell him about it until
after the baby was born, and then refused all offers of his to get involved. Emily Spleen was headstrong,
determined to live life her own way. She told Cal she wasnÅft?
ÅgStop!Åh I gasp, stumbling back into my chair. ÅgDonÅft,Åh I beg.
ÅgI took a vow early in life never to have children,Åh Dervish says, ignoring my plea. ÅgI was afraid the disease
would take hold in them. I was determined not to put them?and myself?through that torment. Cal didnÅft
share that view?he thought life was worth the risk.
ÅgI looked after Billy when Emily died because he was my nephew?not because he was my son. Cal was
BillyÅfs father, Grubbs.
ÅgBilly isnÅft your cousin?heÅfs your brother.Åh
