end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated.
And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month : in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen.
 And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made :
and he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off the earth.
Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were abated
from off the face of the ground.
But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she returned
unto him into the ark ; for the waters were on the face of the whole
earth. Then he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in
unto him into the ark.
And he stayed yet other seven days ; and again he sent forth the
dove out of the ark.
And the dove came in to him in the evening, and, lo, in her mouth
was an olive leaf plucked off : so Noah knew that the waters were
abated from off the earth.
And he stayed yet other seven days, and sent forth the dove, which
returned not again unto him any more.
 And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first
month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from off
the earth : and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked,
and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.
And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the
month, was the earth dried.
And God spake unto Noah, saying,
Go forth of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons’
wives with thee.

20 Genesis 9
Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of all
flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing that
creepeth upon the earth ; that they may breed abundantly in the
earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.
And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’
wives with him :
every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl, and whatsoever
creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went forth out of the
ark.
 And Noah builded an altar unto the Lord ; and took of every
clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on
the altar.
And the Lord smelled a sweet savor ; and the Lord said in his
heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man’s sake ;
for the imagination of man’s heart is evil from his youth : neither
will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.
While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and
heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

God’s Covenant with Noah
And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be
fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast
of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth
upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea ; into your hand are
they delivered.
Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you ; even as the
green herb have I given you all things.
But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye
not eat.
21 Genesis 9
And surely your blood of your lives will I require : at the hand of
every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man ; at the hand of
every man’s brother will I require the life of man.
Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed : for
in the image of God made he man.
And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply ; bring forth abundantly in
the earth, and multiply therein.
And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying,
And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your
seed after you ;
and with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl, of the
cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you ; from all that go out
of the ark, to every beast of the earth.
And I will establish my covenant with you ; neither shall all flesh be
cut off any more by the waters of a flood ; neither shall there any
more be a flood to destroy the earth.
And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make
between me and you, and every living creature that is with you, for
perpetual generations :
I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a
covenant between me and the earth.
And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that
the bow shall be seen in the cloud :
and I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you
and every living creature of all flesh ; and the waters shall no more
become a flood to destroy all flesh.
And the bow shall be in the cloud ; and I will look upon it, that I
may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every
living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.
And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which I
have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.
22 Genesis 9
Noah’s Drunkenness
 And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and
Ham, and Japheth : and Ham is the father of Canaan.
These are the three sons of Noah : and of them was the whole earth
overspread.
 And Noah began to be a husbandman, and he planted a vineyard :
and he drank of the wine, and was drunken ; and he was uncovered
within his tent.
And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father,
and told his two brethren without.
And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their
shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their
father ; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their
father’s nakedness.
And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son
had done unto him.
And he said,
Cursed be Canaan ;
a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.
And he said,
Blessed be the Lord God of Shem ;
and Canaan shall be his servant.
God shall enlarge Japheth,
and he shall dwell in the tents of Shem ;
and Canaan shall be his servant.
  And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.
And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years : and he
died.
23 Genesis 10
The Descendants of the Sons of Noah
Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah ; Shem, Ham,
and Japheth : and unto them were sons born after the flood.
 The sons of Japheth ; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan,
and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
And the sons of Gomer ; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
And the sons of Javan ; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and
Dodanim.
By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands ; every
one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.
 And the sons of Ham ; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and
Canaan.
And the sons of Cush ; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah,
and Sabtecha : and the sons of Raamah ; Sheba, and Dedan.
And Cush begat Nimrod : he began to be a mighty one in the earth.
He was a mighty hunter before the Lord : wherefore it is said,
Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the Lord.
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and
Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the
city Rehoboth, and Calah,
and Resen between Nineveh and Calah : the same is a great city.
And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and
Naphtuhim,
and Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and
Caphtorim.
 And Canaan begat Sidon his firstborn, and Heth,
and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite : and
afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad.
24 Genesis 11
And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest
to Gerar, unto Gaza ; as thou goest unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and
Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.
These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues,
in their countries, and in their nations.
 Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother
of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born.
The children of Shem ; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud,
and Aram.
And the children of Aram ; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
And Arphaxad begat Salah ; and Salah begat Eber.
And unto Eber were born two sons : the name of one was Peleg
[division] ; for in his days was the earth divided ; and his brother’s
name was Joktan.
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazar-maveth, and
Jerah,
and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
and Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab : all these were the sons of
Joktan.
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar, a
mount of the east.
These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues,
in their lands, after their nations.
 These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations,
in their nations : and by these were the nations divided in the earth
after the flood.
11
The Tower of Babel
And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.
And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they
found a plain in the land of Shinar ; and they dwelt there.
25 Genesis 11
And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn
them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they
for mortar.
And they said, Go to, let us build us a city, and a tower, whose top
may reach unto heaven ; and let us make us a name, lest we be
scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.
And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the
children of men builded.
And the Lord said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all
one language ; and this they begin to do : and now nothing will be
restrained from them, which they have imagined to do.
Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they
may not understand one another’s speech.
So the Lord scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of
all the earth : and they left off to build the city.
Therefore is the name of it called Babel ; because the Lord did
there confound the language of all the earth : and from thence did
the Lord scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.
The Descendants of Shem
 These are the generations of Shem : Shem was a hundred years
old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood :
and Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and
begat sons and daughters.
 And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah :
And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three
years, and begat sons and daughters.
 And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber :
and Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years,
and begat sons and daughters.
 And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg :
and Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years,
and begat sons and daughters.
 And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu :
26 Genesis 11
and Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and
begat sons and daughters.
And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug :
and Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years,
and begat sons and daughters.
 And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor :
and Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat
sons and daughters.
 And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah :
and Nahor lived after he begat Terah a hundred and nineteen years,
and begat sons and daughters.
 And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and
Haran.
The Descendants of Terah
 Now these are the generations of Terah : Terah begat Abram,
Nahor, and Haran ; and Haran begat Lot.
And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity,
in Ur of the Chaldees.
And Abram and Nahor took them wives : the name of Abram’s wife
was Sarai ; and the name of Nahor’s wife, Milcah, the daughter of
Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.
But Sarai was barren ; she had no child.
 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his
son’s son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram’s wife ; and
they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the
land of Canaan ; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.
And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years : and Terah
died in Haran.
27 Genesis 12
God’s Call to Abram
Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country,
and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, unto a land that
I will show thee :
and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and
make thy name great ; and thou shalt be a blessing :
and I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth
thee : and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.
 So Abram departed, as the Lord had spoken unto him ; and Lot
went with him : and Abram was seventy and five years old when he
departed out of Haran.
And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother’s son, and all
their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had
gotten in Haran ; and they went forth to go into the land of
Canaan ; and into the land of Canaan they came.
And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto
the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.
And the Lord appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I
give this land : and there builded he an altar unto the Lord, who
appeared unto him.
And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel,
and pitched his tent, having Beth-el on the west, and Hai on the
east : and there he builded an altar unto the Lord, and called upon
the name of the Lord.
And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.
Abram in Egypt
  And there was a famine in the land : and Abram went down into
Egypt to sojourn there ; for the famine was grievous in the land.

28 Genesis 13
And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt,
that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a
fair woman to look upon :
therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee,
that they shall say, This is his wife : and they will kill me, but they
will save thee alive.
Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister : that it may be well with me for
thy sake ; and my soul shall live because of thee.
And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the
Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.
The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before
Pharaoh : and the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house.
And he entreated Abram well for her sake : and he had sheep, and
oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she
asses, and camels.
  And the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues,
because of Sarai, Abram’s wife.
And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What is this that thou hast
done unto me ? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife ?
Why saidst thou, She is my sister ? so I might have taken her to me
to wife : now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.
And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him : and they sent
him away, and his wife, and all that he had.
13
Abram and Lot Separate
And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the south.
  And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.
And he went on his journeys from the south even to Beth-el, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel
and Hai ;

29 Genesis 13
unto the place of the altar, which he had made there at the first :
and there Abram called on the name of the Lord.
And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and
tents.
And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell
together : for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell
together.
And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram’s cattle and
the herdmen of Lot’s cattle : and the Canaanite and the Perizzite
dwelt then in the land.
  And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee,
between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen ;
for we be brethren.
Is not the whole land before thee ? separate thyself, I pray thee,
from me : if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right ; or
if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left.
And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordan, that it
was well watered every where, before the Lord destroyed Sodom
and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of
Egypt, as thou comest unto Zoar.
Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan ; and Lot journeyed east :
and they separated themselves the one from the other.
Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of
the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom.
But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord
exceedingly.
  And the Lord said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated
from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where
thou art northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward :
for all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy
seed for ever.
And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth : so that if a man
can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be
numbered.

30 Genesis 14
Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the breadth
of it ; for I will give it unto thee.
Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of
Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the
Lord.
14
Abram Rescues Lot
And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch
king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of
nations ;
that these made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king
of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of
Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.
All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is the
salt sea.
Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year
they rebelled.
And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that
were with him, and smote the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim, and
the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh Kiriathaim,
and the Horites in their mount Seir, unto El-paran, which is by the
wilderness.
And they returned, and came to En-mishpat, which is Kadesh, and
smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites,
that dwelt in Hazezon-tamar.
And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah,
and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of
Bela, (the same is Zoar ;) and they joined battle with them in the
vale of Siddim ;
with Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal king of
nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar ;
four kings with five.

31 Genesis 14
And the vale of Siddim was full of slime pits ; and the kings of Sodom
and Gomorrah fled, and fell there ; and they that remained fled to
the mountain.
And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their
victuals, and went their way.
And they took Lot, Abram’s brother’s son, who dwelt in Sodom,
and his goods, and departed.
  And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the
Hebrew ; for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother
of Eshcol, and brother of Aner : and these were confederate with
Abram.
And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he
armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred
and eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan.
And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by night,
and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the
left hand of Damascus.
And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his
brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.
Melchizedek Blesses Abram
  And the king of Sodom went out to meet him, after his return
from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer and of the kings that were with
him, at the valley of Shaveh, which is the king’s dale.
And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine : and
he was the priest of the most high God.
And he blessed him, and said,
Blessed be Abram of the most high God,
possessor of heaven and earth :
and blessed be the most high God,
which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand.
And he gave him tithes of all.
And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and
take the goods to thyself.

32 Genesis 15
And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted up mine hand
unto the Lord, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and
earth,
that I will not take from a thread even to a shoe-latchet, and that I
will not take any thing that is thine, lest thou shouldest say, I have
made Abram rich :
save only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of
the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre ; let them
take their portion.
15
A Son Promised to Abram
After these things the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a
vision, saying, Fear not, Abram : I am thy shield, and thy exceeding
great reward.
And Abram said, Lord God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go
childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus ?
And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed : and, lo,
one born in my house is mine heir.
And, behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, This
shall not be thine heir ; but he that shall come forth out of thine
own bowels shall be thine heir.
And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward
heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them : and he
said unto him, So shall thy seed be.
And he believed in the Lord ; and he counted it to him for
righteousness.
  And he said unto him, I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur
of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.
And he said, Lord God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit
it ?
33 Genesis 16
And he said unto him, Take me a heifer of three years old, and a she
goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a
turtledove, and a young pigeon.
And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst, and
laid each piece one against another : but the birds divided he not.
And when the fowls came down upon the carcasses, Abram drove
them away.
  And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram ;
and, lo, a horror of great darkness fell upon him.
And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a
stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them ; and they
shall afflict them four hundred years ;
and also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge : and
afterward shall they come out with great substance.
And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace ; thou shalt be buried in a
good old age.
But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again : for the
iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.
  And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was
dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed
between those pieces.
In that same day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying,
Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto
the great river, the river Euphrates :
the Kenites, and the Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites,
and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Rephaim,
and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the
Jebusites.
16
Hagar and Ishmael
Now Sarai, Abram’s wife, bare him no children : and she had a
handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.
34 Genesis 16
And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the Lord hath restrained
me from bearing : I pray thee, go in unto my maid ; it may be that I
may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of
Sarai.
And Sarai, Abram’s wife, took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, after
Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to
her husband Abram to be his wife.
And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived : and when she saw
that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.
And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee : I have given
my maid into thy bosom ; and when she saw that she had
conceived, I was despised in her eyes : the Lord judge between me
and thee.
But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thy hand ; do to
her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she
fled from her face.
And the angel
