of the Lord found her by a fountain of water in
the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.
And he said, Hagar, Sarai’s maid, whence camest thou ? and
whither wilt thou go ? And she said, I flee from the face of my
mistress Sarai.
And the angel of the Lord said unto her, Return to thy mistress,
and submit thyself under her hands.
And the angel of the Lord said unto her, I will multiply thy seed
exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.
And the angel of the Lord said unto her, Behold, thou art with
child, and shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael [God
shall hear] ; because the Lord hath heard thy affliction.
And he will be a wild man ; his hand will be against every man, and
every man’s hand against him : and he shall dwell in the presence of
all his brethren.
And she called the name of the Lord that spake unto her, Thou
God seest me : for she said, Have I also here looked after him that
seeth me ?
35 Genesis 17
Wherefore the well was called Beer-lahai-roi [the well of him that
liveth and seeth me] : behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.
  And Hagar bare Abram a son : and Abram called his son’s name,
which Hagar bare, Ishmael.
And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare
Ishmael to Abram.
17
Circumcision the Sign of the Covenant
And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the Lord
appeared to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God ;
walk before me, and be thou perfect.
And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will
multiply thee exceedingly.
And Abram fell on his face : and God talked with him, saying,
As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a
father of many nations.
Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name
shall be Abraham [father of a great multitude] ; for a father of many
nations have I made thee.
And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations of
thee, and kings shall come out of thee.
And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed
after thee in their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be a
God unto thee and to thy seed after thee.
And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land
wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an
everlasting possession ; and I will be their God.
  And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant
therefore, thou, and thy seed after thee in their generations.
This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and
thy seed after thee ; Every man child among you shall be
circumcised.
36 Genesis 17
And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin ; and it shall be a
token of the covenant betwixt me and you.
And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every
man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or
bought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seed.
He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money,
must needs be circumcised : and my covenant shall be in your flesh
for an everlasting covenant.
And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is not
circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people ; he hath
broken my covenant.
  And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not
call her name Sarai, but Sarah [princess] shall her name be.
And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her : yea, I will bless
her, and she shall be a mother of nations ; kings of people shall be of
her.
Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his
heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old ?
and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear ?
And Abraham said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before
thee !
And God said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed ; and thou
shalt call his name Isaac : and I will establish my covenant with him
for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.
And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee : Behold, I have blessed him,
and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly ;
twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.
But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear
unto thee at this set time in the next year.
  And he left off talking with him, and God went up from
Abraham.
And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his
house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among
the men of Abraham’s house ; and circumcised the flesh of their
foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.

37 Genesis 18
And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his son.
And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with
money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.
18
The Birth of Isaac Promised
And the Lord appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre : and he
sat in the tent door in the heat of the day ;
and he lifted up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood by
him : and when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent
door, and bowed himself toward the ground,
and said, My Lord, if now I have found favor in thy sight, pass not
away, I pray thee, from thy servant :
let a little water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest
yourselves under the tree :
and I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort ye your hearts ; after
that ye shall pass on : for therefore are ye come to your sevant. And
they said, So do, as thou hast said.
And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make
ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes
upon the hearth.
And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetched a calf tender and
good, and gave it unto a young man ; and he hasted to dress it.
And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed,
and set it before them ; and he stood by them under the tree, and
they did eat.
  And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife ? And he said,
Behold, in the tent.
38 Genesis 18
And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time
of life ; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard it
in the tent door, which was behind him.
Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age ; and it
ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.
Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed
old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also ?
And the Lord said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh,
saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, which am old ?
Is any thing too hard for the Lord ? At the time appointed I will
return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have
a son.
Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not ; for she was afraid. And
he said, Nay ; but thou didst laugh.
Abraham Intercedes for Sodom
  And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom :
and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.
And the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I
do ;
seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty
nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him ?
For I know him, that he will command his children and his
household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord, to
do justice and judgment ; that the Lord may bring upon Abraham
that which he hath spoken of him.
And the Lord said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is
great, and because their sin is very grievous,
I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether
according to the cry of it, which is come unto me ; and if not, I will
know.
  And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward
Sodom : but Abraham stood yet before the Lord.
39 Genesis 18
And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the
righteous with the wicked ?
Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city : wilt thou also
destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are
therein ?
That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous
with the wicked ; and that the righteous should be as the wicked,
that be far from thee : Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right ?
And the Lord said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the
city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes.
And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon
me to speak unto the Lord, which am but dust and ashes :
Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous : wilt thou
destroy all the city for lack of five ? And he said, If I find there forty
and five, I will not destroy it.
And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there
shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty’s
sake.
And he said unto him, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will
speak : Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said,
I will not do it, if I find thirty there.
And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the
Lord : Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said,
I will not destroy it for twenty’s sake.
And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but
this once : Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will
not destroy it for ten’s sake.
And the Lord went his way, as soon as he had left communing
with Abraham : and Abraham returned unto his place.
40 Genesis 19
19
The Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah
And there came two angels to Sodom at even ; and Lot sat in the
gate of Sodom : and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them ; and he
bowed himself with his face toward the ground ;
and he said, Behold now, my lords, turn in, I pray you, into your
servant’s house, and tarry all night, and wash your feet, and ye
shall rise up early, and go on your ways. And they said, Nay ; but we
will abide in the street all night.
And he pressed upon them greatly ; and they turned in unto him,
and entered into his house ; and he made them a feast, and did bake
unleavened bread, and they did eat.
But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of
Sodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the
people from every quarter :
and they called unto Lot, and said unto him, Where are the men
which came in to thee this night ? bring them out unto us, that we
may know them.
And Lot went out at the door unto them, and shut the door after
him,
and said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly.
Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known man ; let
me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is
good in your eyes : only unto these men do nothing ; for therefore
came they under the shadow of my roof.
And they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellow
came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge : now will we deal
worse with thee than with them. And they pressed sore upon the
man, even Lot, and came near to break the door.
But the men put forth their hand, and pulled Lot into the house to
them, and shut to the door.
41 Genesis 19
And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with
blindness, both small and great : so that they wearied themselves to
find the door.
  And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides ? son-inlaw,
and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in
the city, bring them out of this place :
for we will destroy this place, because the cry of them is waxen
great before the face of the Lord ; and the Lord hath sent us to
destroy it.
And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons-in-law, which married
his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place ; for the Lord
will destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his
sons-in-law.
  And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot,
saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters, which are here ;
lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city.
And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon
the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters ; the
Lord being merciful unto him : and they brought him forth, and
set him without the city.
And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad,
that he said, Escape for thy life ; look not behind thee, neither stay
thou in all the plain ; escape to the mountain, lest thou be
consumed.
And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my Lord :
behold now, thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou
hast magnified thy mercy, which thou hast showed unto me in
saving my life ; and I cannot escape to the mountain, lest some evil
take me, and I die :
behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one : O, let
me escape thither, (is it not a little one ?) and my soul shall live.
And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this
thing also, that I will not overthrow this city, for the which thou
hast spoken.
42 Genesis 19
Haste thee, escape thither ; for I cannot do any thing till thou be
come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar
[little].
The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar.
  Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah
brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven ;
and he overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the
inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.
But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar
of salt.
And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he
stood before the Lord :
and he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the
land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke of the country
went up as the smoke of a furnace.
  And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain,
that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of
the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot
dwelt.
  And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his
two daughters with him ; for he feared to dwell in Zoar : and he
dwelt in a cave, he and his two daughters.
And the firstborn said unto the younger, Our father is old, and there
is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of all
the earth :
come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him,
that we may preserve seed of our father.
And they made their father drink wine that night : and the
firstborn went in, and lay with her father ; and he perceived not
when she lay down, nor when she arose.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said unto the
younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father : let us make him
drink wine this night also ; and go thou in, and lie with him, that
we may preserve seed of our father.
43 Genesis 20
And they made their father drink wine that night also : and the
younger arose, and lay with him ; and he perceived not when she
lay down, nor when she arose.
Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.
And the firstborn bare a son, and called his name Moab : the same is
the father of the Moabites unto this day.
And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name Benammi
: the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this
day.
20
Abraham and Abimelech
And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country,
and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.
And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister : and
Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him,
Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast
taken ; for she is a man’s wife.
But Abimelech had not come near her : and he said, Lord, wilt
thou slay also a righteous nation ?
Said he not unto me, She is my sister ? and she, even she herself
said, He is my brother : in the integrity of my heart and innocency
of my hands have I done this.
And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didst this
in the integrity of thy heart ; for I also withheld thee from sinning
against me : therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.
Now therefore restore the man his wife ; for he is a prophet, and he
shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live : and if thou restore her not,
know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are thine.
  Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his
servants, and told all these things in their ears : and the men were
sore afraid.
44 Genesis 21
Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast
thou done unto us ? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast
brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin ? thou hast done
deeds unto me that ought not to be done.
And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou
hast done this thing ?
And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not
in this place ; and they will slay me for my wife’s sake.
And yet indeed she is my sister ; she is the daughter of my father, but
not the daughter of my mother ; and she became my wife.
And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my
father’s house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou
shalt show unto me ; at every place whither we shall come, say of
me, He is my brother.
And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and
womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him
Sarah his wife.
And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee : dwell where it
pleaseth thee.
And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a
thousand pieces of silver : behold, he is to thee a covering of the eyes,
unto all that are with thee, and with all other : thus she was
reproved.
So Abraham prayed unto God : and God healed Abimelech, and his
wife, and his maidservants ; and they bare children.
For the Lord had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of
Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.
21
The Birth of Isaac
And the Lord visited Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did unto
Sarah as he had spoken.
45 Genesis 21
For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the
set time of which God had spoken to him.
And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him,
whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.
And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, as
God had commanded him.
And Abraham was a hundred years old, when his son Isaac was
born unto him.
And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear
will laugh with me.
And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah
should have given children suck ? for I have borne him a son in his
old age.
Hagar and Ishmael Sent Away
  And the child grew, and was weaned : and Abraham made a great
feast the same day that Isaac was weaned.
And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had borne
unto Abraham, mocking.
Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and
her son : for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my
son, even with Isaac.
And the thing was very grievous in Abraham’s sight because of his
son.
And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight
because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman ; in all that Sarah
hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice ; for in Isaac shall thy
seed be called.
And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation,
because he is thy seed.
And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a
bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder,
and the child, and sent her away : and she departed, and wandered
in the wilderness of Beer-sheba.
46 Genesis 21
  And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child
under one of the shrubs.
And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off, as
it were a bowshot : for she said, Let me not see the death of the
child. And she sat over against him, and lifted up her voice, and
wept.
And God heard the voice of the lad ; and the angel of God called to
Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar ?
fear not ; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is.
Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand ; for I will make
him a great nation.
And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water ; and she
went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.
And God was with the lad ; and he grew, and dwelt in the
wilderness, and became an archer.
And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran : and his mother took him
a wife out of the land of Egypt.
The Covenant between Abraham and Abimelech
  And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol the
chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with
thee in all that thou doest :
now therefore swear unto me here by God, that thou wilt not deal
falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son’s son : but
according to the kindness that I have done unto thee, thou shalt do
unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.
And Abraham said, I will swear.
  And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water,
which Abimelech’s servants had violently taken away.
And Abimelech said, I wot not who hath done this thing : neither
didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but today.
And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto
Abimelech ; and both of them made a covenant.
And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.
47 Genesis 22
And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ewe
lambs which thou hast set by themselves ?
And he said, For these seven ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand,
that they may be a witness unto me, that I have digged this well.
Wherefore he called that place Beer-sheba [the well of the oath] ;
because there they sware both of them.
Thus they made a covenant at Beer-sheba : then Abimelech rose up,
and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into
the land of the Philistines.
And Abraham planted a grove in Beer-sheba, and called there on the
name of the Lord, the everlasting God.
And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines’ land many days.
22
Abraham Commanded to Offer Isaac
And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt
Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham : and he said, Behold, here I
am.
And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou
lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah ; and offer him there for
a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee
of.
And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass,
and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and
clave the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto
the place of which God had told him.
Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place
afar off.
And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass ;
and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to
you.
48 Genesis 22
And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon
Isaac his son ; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife ; and they
went both of them together.
And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father : and
he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the
wood : but where is the lamb for a burnt offering ?
And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a
burnt offering : so they went both of them together.
  And they came to the place which God had told him of ; and
Abraham built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and
bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood.
And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay
his son.
And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven, and said,
Abraham, Abraham : and he said, Here am I.
And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou any
thing unto him : for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou
hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me.
And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind
him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns : and Abraham went and
took the ram, and offered
