No time to check Lord LossÅfs response to DervishÅfs opening move. I toss myself wildly to the left. Vein
shoots overhead, crocodile jaws snapping together on thin air, human fingers wriggling.
Artery lands on my back. His left hand grabs my neck. Teeth bite into my flesh. I howl and roll over,
seeking to squash the hell-child. He leaps free before I complete the move, chuckling darkly.
In the cage, Bill-E roars and shakes the bars, sensing the threat of the demons even in his beastlike form.
Vein attacks again, bounding across the floor. My right hand snakes out. Fingers open. An axe jumps into
my palm from the pile of weapons several metres away. I sit up and throw. It arcs towards Vein. Bounces
hard off her snout. Only a scratch, but the wound makes her pause.
I rise without using the muscles in my legs. Look down?IÅfm hovering in the air! Close my mind to the
impossibility of the situation. Extend both hands. An axe flies into my left, a short sword into my right. I
look for the demons. TheyÅfre huddled side by side, glaring at me.
ÅgCome and get it, creeps!Åh I grunt, twirling the axe like a baton.
ÅgA clever manoeuvre,Åh Lord Loss notes, clapping drily. ÅgDid you teach him that one, Dervish?Åh
ÅgNever mind the commentary,Åh Dervish growls. ÅgItÅfs your move.Åh
My eyes dart to the boards. Incredibly, dozens of moves have been made in the few seconds since the
game began. Play is at an advanced stage on all five sets.
Artery attacks while IÅfm distracted. Faster than my eye can follow, he crosses the room, jumps, drags
down hard on my legs. I kick at him, but he scrabbles up above my knees. The teeth in his hands sink
into both my thighs. I scream. Artery laughs. Vein yaps excitedly. Bill-E butts the bars of his cage with his
head and tries to bite through them.
I collapse to the floor. ArteryÅfs shaken loose by the jolt. I kick him backwards. He barrels into a pile of
charred books, scattering them, squealing viciously.
VeinÅfs on me before I can get up. Her teeth clamp around my outstretched left leg. She bites through my
shinbone. Rips her head left and right. Flesh and bone tear. My foot and ankle fly across the room. Blood
pumps from the lower part of my left leg?agony!
Vein and Artery scramble to the wound. Immerse their faces in the spray of blood. Gulp it down. Push
each other out of the way, hungry for the taste of me.
Shaking?going into shock?eyes rolling?room spinning?numb to the pain?watching the demons
feed?defeated?dying.
ÅgUse your magic!Åh Dervish screams. My eyes half-focus. HeÅfs standing, face ashen. ÅgMagic!Åh he bellows
again, as Lord Loss grins and takes one of DervishÅfs queens with a bishop.
Staring at the demons?their faces red with my blood?imagining their next attack?the torment?spurred
into action.
IÅfm still holding the axe. Summoning all my strength, I lash out with it and bury it dead in the middle of
VeinÅfs hard, elongated head. The demon falls away, choking. Her strength deserts her. She falls in a
heap. IÅfve killed her!
I almost shout aloud with glee, until I spot Artery climbing on top of Vein. He pulls the axe out and pushes
the edges of the wound together. Blood glows. The wound knots itself closed. Vein gets to her feet,
shaken, but very much alive.
My heart sinks?then leaps. DervishÅfs cry makes sense now. If the demons can use magic to repair their
wounds, so can I! While VeinÅfs still recovering, I point at my severed foot on the other side of the room
and will it back into place. For a second nothing happens. Then it vanishes and reappears at the end of
my leg. Flesh, bone and sinews meld. The pain is worse than when it was bitten off. But it works! Within
seconds I have my foot back, though itÅfs sore as hell.
I donÅft test my weight on the foot. Instead, I calmly spread my arms and imagine myself airborne. With
slow grace, I rise. Tucking both legs up behind me, I face the demons, then stab at them with my sword.
Artery bats my sword away. Vein jumps into the air and snaps for my legs, but IÅfm too high. I laugh at the
demons, then slash at them again. They scatter, Vein to my left, Artery to my right.
Bloodlust. Sensing victory. I chase after Artery. Hack at him with the sword?miss by bare centimetres.
Hack again?closer. He races from me, wailing, tiny limbs waving in an almost comical manner. Throws himself to the floor in desperation. I have him! Hurling myself forward, I take careful aim with my sword,
bring it screaming down, andÅc
Åchit the strands of web at the boundary of the cellar!
Sharp resistance, like hitting a steel bar. Bones crack. Sword drops. But worse?I stick! The strands of
web are coated with a gluey substance. It clings to my arms, body, legs. IÅfm a fly stuck to flypaper.
Struggling. Trapped. Helpless.
Artery and Vein gather below me. Their faces split into evil leers. The teeth in ArteryÅfs hands gnash
dreadfully. VeinÅfs eyes appear beadier than ever. She grips the web with her human hands. Crawls
towards me. Artery not far behind.
Thrashing?tearing at the web?trying to bite through the strand nearest my face. I call upon my magical
abilities?wish myself off of the web?it doesnÅft work! Blind panic?the demons closing in?here comes
the kill!
A CHANGE OF PLAN
Vein creeps closer. Artery slithers next to his demonic sister. Both growling softly. My cries die away to a
terrified whimper. Watching, sickly fascinated, accepting my doom.
ÅgNo!Åh Dervish roars, and heÅfs suddenly floating above the demons. Grabs each by the scruff of the neck
and hurls them across the width of the cellar, where they crash into webs on the opposite side. He
reaches down, grabs my arms and rips me free of the sticky strands. Presses his fingers into my back
where the bones broke. A warm surge of power?the bones knit together.
ÅgThis is unpardonable, Dervish,Åh Lord Loss mutters from his place at the chess boards. ÅgTo abandon our
game while itÅfs in progressÅcÅh He tuts disapprovingly. ÅgYou have broken the rules of our agreement. I am
now free to summon as many of my familiars as I wish and set them loose upon you and the boys.Åh
ÅgWait!Åh Dervish roars as Lord Loss rises. ÅgIÅfll return to the game!Åh
ÅgToo late,Åh Lord Loss sighs. ÅgBesides, what would be the point? Grubitsch is out of his depth. Let us put
an end to this sham. You have disappointed me, Dervish, but there will be other Gradys and other
matches.Åh Lord Loss extends five of his eight arms, picks up DervishÅfs kings from each board and starts
to crush them.
ÅgWhat if Grubbs plays you?Åh Dervish shouts.
Lord Loss pauses. ÅgThat was not our deal.Åh
ÅgWeÅfll make a new deal,Åh Dervish hisses. ÅgThe game continues where I left off. Grubbs assumes my
position. I pit myself against your beasts.Åh
ÅgWhy should I agree to that?Åh Lord Loss asks. ÅgI have already won.Åh
ÅgNo,Åh Dervish disagrees. ÅgWe may have forfeited the game?but you havenÅft won. You can take our lives
now, quickly, or you can prolong the agony and savour GrubbsÅfs desperation and sorrow as he loses to
you.Åh
Lord LossÅfs eyes light up at the mention of desperation and sorrow, but he hesitates before replying.
ÅgWhat if he doesnÅft lose?Åh he finally murmurs. ÅgI will have sacrificed the pleasures of a certain victory for
the humiliation of defeat.Åh
ÅgItÅfs a gamble,Åh Dervish agrees, Ågbut Grubbs is a poor player. Our chances are slim. Imagine the
satisfaction youÅfll extract as Grubbs slowly and painfully comes to realise he canÅft win.Åh
ÅgYou make it sound almost irresistible.Åh Lord Loss smiles thinly. ÅgBut what does the boy think?Åh
Dervish looks questioningly at me. I shake my head uncertainly. ÅgI just want it over with,Åh I sob. ÅgWeÅfre
going to lose anyway?why drag it out?Åh
ÅgAs long as thereÅfs life, thereÅfs hope,Åh Dervish replies quietly. ÅgAnd itÅfs not just yourself youÅfd be playing
for?itÅfs me and Billy too. Will you throw away our lives without a fight?Åh
I stare at my uncleÅfs cold expression, then at the howling Bill-E in his cage. Wearily, I nod. ÅgIÅfll try,Åh I
mumble. ÅgIf Lord Loss agrees to it, so will I.Åh
DervishÅfs head whips round and he glares at Lord Loss. ÅgWell?Åh he barks. ÅgCan you match this childÅfs
courage, or will you flee with the easy victory?Åh
Lord Loss rolls the kings around in the stubby layers of flesh at the ends of his arms, considering the
proposal. Then, with a smile, he replaces them on the boards. ÅgCome,Åh he says, gesturing to the seat
which Dervish vacated.
Gliding to the floor. Dervish sets me down. Pain flares in my left foot. I ignore it. Hobble forward. Gaze at
the five boards, the ranks of white and black pieces, then into the demon masterÅfs cunning eyes.
Breathing raggedly. Clearing my thoughts. Trying to remember every lesson Dad and Mum ever taught
me.
I sit.
Instant peacefulness. An unnatural silence. I stare around the cellar, startled. Everything seems to have
stopped. Dervish stands motionless, facing the demons, while Bill-EÅfs frozen at the bars of his cage. Then
I realise they are moving?only incredibly slowly.
ÅgWhat happened?Åh I gasp.
ÅgI have separated our time frame from theirs,Åh Lord Loss says. ÅgIt allows us to play without distractions.Åh
I watch as DervishÅfs right hand slowly comes up, fingers unfurling, red flames streaking from the tips.
Slower than snails, Vein and Artery break to the sides, out of the path of the firebolts.
ÅgCome,Åh Lord Loss says, tapping the middle board. ÅgThe fight is no longer your concern. Focus on the
match.Åh
With an effort I tear my eyes away from Dervish and the demons and stare at the pieces lined up in front
of me. Assessing the damage. I immediately note that the game on the far right board is beyond
saving?thatÅfs where Lord Loss took DervishÅfs queen with a bishop. The game on the centre board also looks like a lost cause, with white down both knights and a bishop.
ÅgDepressing, isnÅft it?Åh Lord Loss sighs, looking more miserable than I feel. ÅgDervish was not at his best
tonight. His fear for you affected his game. I warned him about that, but he would not listen.Åh
Lord Loss picks up the queen he took from the far right board and toys with it. ÅgItÅfs your move, Grubitsch,Åh
he says, Ågbut take your time. There is no rush. Study the pieces. Plan a campaign. Search for openings.Åh
I reach towards a rook on the board to my immediate left. Pause. Withdraw my hand without touching the
piece. ÅgCan I move any piece, on any board?Åh I ask.
ÅgOf course.Åh
I run an eye over the five boards again, then pick up a pawn on the board to my far right and move it
forward a space. The battleÅfs already lost on that board, so I might as well start there and treat it as a
warm-up. Hopefully work my worst moves out of my system.
ÅgAh,Åh Lord Loss nods. ÅgA cautious approach. Very wise, young Grubitsch.Åh He moves a knight forward and
checks my king. ÅgIt will make no difference to the end result, but at least you may lose with some dignity.
Perhaps that will provide you with a glimmer of comfort when you and your unfortunate companions roast
tonight in the fires of my own personal hell.Åh
It takes Lord Loss nine moves to checkmate me on the far right. When he wins, my king melts into a
foul-smelling white puddle. Lord Loss picks up the board, snaps it into pieces and tosses it aside.
ÅgThen there were four.Åh
Sweating. Fidgeting. Trying to concentrate on the boards. Eyes constantly flicking to Dervish and the
demons, locked in slow-motion combat.
IÅfm trying to keep play confined to the board on my left?taking the contest one game at a time?but Lord
Loss wonÅft oblige. He makes a few moves on that board, then switches to another, then another.
Though I have a free run of the boards, I canÅft make more than one move on any board until Lord Loss
has replied to it. So, if I make a move on the middle board, and Lord Loss then moves a piece on the
board to my far left, I canÅft make a second move on the board in the middle?I have to wait for Lord Loss
to move one of his pieces on it. HeÅfs tied by the same rules as me, of course, but it feels like the odds are
stacked in his favour, as if IÅfm the only one restricted.
IÅfve played chess like this before, but not often, and not recently. Dad tried me on multi-boards when I
was younger, saw I wasnÅft able to maintain my focus, so worked on improving my individual game.
Perhaps heÅfd have tested me again when I was older?if heÅfd lived.
ItÅfs impossible not to think about my parents and Gret. Did Dad sweat this much when he faced the
demon lord? Was Gret half-frozen in time, like Bill-E is now, unaware of what was occurring, but
somehow sensing doom? Did Mum lose limbs to the familiars during the fight?
I move a wizard-shaped rook across the middle board. The game here seems lost, but IÅfm taking it slowly, hoping a route to victory will present itself.
ÅgOh dear,Åh Lord Loss says, and my stomach sinks. He takes one of my pawns with a bishop, exposing my
queen. IÅfll have to move her now, but thatÅfs going to leave my king vulnerable. Any half-hopes I entertain
of winning on this board vanish.
ÅgSo sad,Åh Lord Loss whispers, red eyes glowing dully. ÅgTo lose nobly is horrible?but to carelessly throw
the game awayÅcÅh
ÅgStuff it,Åh I half-sob, knowing heÅfs right, hating myself for surrendering so cheaply.
ÅgYou can concede defeat now, if you wish,Åh he says. ÅgI have no heart, but if I had, there would be room in
it for mercy. I will let you?Åh
ÅgI said stuff it!Åh I roar, cutting him off. I brutally push my queen to safety, then turn my thoughts away from
the board in the middle and focus on the three on which I still stand a slim chance of winning.
Lord Loss doesnÅft finish me off on the centre board, but chooses instead to flirt with me on the others,
toying with me, threatening my major pieces, letting me escape, then slowly moving back in for the kill.
IÅfm playing through tears, fingers shaking, breath rasping in my throat. ItÅfs not losing that I despise, but
doing so in such a humiliating fashion. I ignored Lord Loss when he spoke of losing with dignity, but now I
understand what he meant. To crumble at the moment of truth, to allow your opponent to psyche you out,
to defeat yourself by playing dreadfully?thatÅfs a million times more sickening than coming, competing
and being beaten fairly.
ÅgI could chase you forever, Grubitsch,Åh Lord Loss murmurs, once again sliding a queen backwards on the
board to my left, when he could have pressed on with her and ensnared my king ÅgPerhaps I will.Åh He
smiles with evil pleasure. ÅgTime can barely touch us here. I could make this game last an eternity.Åh
I respond by moving a pawn sideways on the far left board. A blind move, born of exhaustion and
resignation.
ÅgIÅfm afraid thatÅfs an illegal move,Åh Lord Loss says, putting the pawn back on its original spot. ÅgBut IÅfll
overlook it this time. Try again.Åh
ÅgWhy donÅft you just finish it?Åh I scream, picking the pawn up and throwing it straight at the demonÅfs face.
The pawn sticks in the flesh of Lord LossÅfs left cheek. He leaves it there a moment, while blood pools
around it, then pries it free and places it back on the board.
ÅgYou should be grateful that I procrastinate,Åh he chuckles, pressing a finger to the fresh cut on his cheek,
then licking it clean of blood with his long grey tongue.
ÅgThis is your final ever game as one of the living. ItÅfs only fitting that it should last a lifetime.Åh
Hitting brick walls. Every time I advance, Lord Loss drives me back. Every time I go after one of his
pieces, he smoothly evades capture. Every time I fall back and group my pieces around my
kings?inviting him on, in the hope heÅfll get arrogant and make a mistake?he circles like a vulture,
patient, cold, mocking.
My temper rises and drops from minute to minute. I scream at him, turn my back and refuse to play, then
give in and beg him to end the torment.
Through it all he observes me with a slight, cutting smile, which spreads during my darkest moments, as
he feeds on my sorrow with relish.
Since my cause is hopeless, I spend more and more time watching Dervish battle the familiars. He seems
to have the upper hand?the pair are wounded in many places?but Vein and Artery are still active,
tracking him, probing for weak spots.
ÅgA nasty nick,Åh Lord Loss notes as Artery makes a pass and catches DervishÅfs left hip. Blood sprays into
the air in slow motion, each drop vividly visible from where I sit. DervishÅfs lips press tightly together into a
pained wince.
ÅgI think your uncle might succumb before you do,Åh Lord Loss says, reluctantly taking one of my pawns.
ÅgAs brave and resourceful as he is, he cannot continue forever.Åh
ÅgYouÅfd like that, wouldnÅft you?Åh I snarl. ÅgTo see him fail. To be able to pin the blame on him and make him
feel guilty. I bet youÅfd tell him I was enjoying great success on the boards?torment him before you let
your slaves finish him off.Åh
Lord Loss beams ghoulishly. ÅgYou see through me, young Grubitsch,Åh he purrs.
ÅgIÅfm starting to,Åh I mutter, and return to the game. IÅfm reaching forward to move a knight when I pause,
thinking about what IÅfve just said. I am starting to understand how Lord Loss operates. He isnÅft a difficult
creature to make sense of?as Dervish told me already, the demon master feeds on pain. He thrives on
the misery of others.
ÅgContinue,Åh Lord Loss encourages me, nodding at the knight. ÅgThatÅfs one of your finer moves. YouÅfll
threaten both my rook and queen. IÅfll have to do some quick thinking to wriggle out of this one!Åh He
laughs, as though my cunning delights him.
But itÅfs not my cunning he craves.
ItÅfs my suffering.
I withdraw my hand and jam it under the table, thinking furiously. My wits and chess skills are no match
for Lord LossÅfs. IÅfve tried all I can to upset his game plan and disturb his style of play. But what if the
answer doesnÅft lie in the game? What if I can compete with him on an emotional level and undermine him
that way?
Thinking?
HeÅfs a parasite.
He feeds off the misery of others.
He takes delight in my failings.
Observing?
His smile, how it grows as my mood dips.
The glow in his eyes when I run out of ideas and break down in tears.
The eagerness with which he attacks, then withdraws.
Wondering?
What would happen if I robbed him of his grisly satisfaction?
How would he respond if I cut off his supply of desperate grief?
I close my eyes. Forget the boards, the game, Lord Loss. Think about Dervish and the speed with which
he pushed me into this encounter. He could have prepared me for this in advance, told me about Bill-E
and Lord Loss, worked with me on my weapons and chess skills, just in case he ever had to use me. But
he didnÅft. He dropped me in it. No training or commands, except one simple, core piece of advice?donÅft
act?react.
Understanding clicks in. My eyes snap open. IÅfve been going about this the wrong way! Thinking, plotting,
planning?those are all the things Dervish told me not to do. He warned me to obey my instincts, let the
magic flow, react to the lunges and parries of the demons. He was talking about hand-to-hand combat,
but why shouldnÅft those guidelines apply at the chess board too?
I recall the way he launched into the game. No hesitation. No long study of the boards. I assumed it was
because he had his game plan set clear in his mind before he sat down?but perhaps he didnÅft have one
at all!
ÅgGrubitsch?Åh Lord Loss asks, fake concern in his expression. ÅgAre you well, my young friend? Can you
continue?Åh
I stare at him wordlessly for a long, pregnant moment.
Then I laugh.
ÅgOf course I can!Åh I boom, startling the demon master. ÅgForgive me for the long delay?I was trying to
remember if I left the light on in my bedroom before coming down.Åh
ÅgWhat?Åh he blinks.
ÅgDad hated it when I left the lights on,Åh I tell him, casually moving my queen on the middle board forward,
presenting her to Lord LossÅfs rook. ÅgElectricity bills donÅft pay themselves, you know. Your move.Åh
Lord Loss stares at me, astonished, then down at the board. ÅgThat was an unwise choice,Åh he mutters.
ÅgBorn of haste, perhaps?Åh
ÅgNo,Åh I smirk. ÅgI knew what I was doing.Åh
ÅgYou can retract the piece if you wish,Åh he says.
ÅgReally?Åh
ÅgIt is not normally allowed,Åh he smiles, Ågbut I will make an exception. Take your queen back. Recalculate.
Choose a wiser course of action.Åh
ÅgVery kind of you.Åh I pull the queen back six places to her original position, pause a moment?then move
her forward into the exact same spot as before.
Lord LossÅfs face darkens. I throw my head back and rock with laughter.
ÅgYou would be well advised not to try my patience,Åh he hisses.
ÅgTo hell with your patience,Åh I jeer. ÅgThis game bores me. You bore me. Take my queen or drag things out?I donÅft care anymore.Åh
ÅgYou wish to concede defeat?Åh Lord Loss asks with undue eagerness.
ÅgNope,Åh I chuckle. ÅgYouÅfll have to come take me. And if you donÅft?if you play it coy, like you have
been?IÅfll chase you. IÅfll give you no option but to rid me of my queens, rooks and bishops. And you know
what IÅfll do then, old friend? IÅfll giggle! IÅfll guffaw! IÅfll positively explode with every last scrap of mirth I can
muster!Åh
ÅgYouÅfve lost your mind,Åh he croaks.
ÅgNo,Åh I smile spitefully. ÅgYouÅfve lost your juicy meal ticket. I wonÅft play the sad, bewildered victim any
longer. YouÅfll never feed from me again. You can kill me, but you wonÅft squeeze one further drop of
pleasure from me, not if you keep me alive for twenty lifetimes!Åh
The demon lordÅfs jaw trembles. His eyes flare with pale red light. The snakes in his chest slide under and
over each other in a sudden frenzy Then he reaches out, pushes his rook forward with a stubby,
ill-shaped excuse for a finger, and knocks my elfin queen from the table.
In response, I look him straight in the eye?and laugh.
SPIRAL TO THE HEART
OF NOWHERE
Lord Loss surrounds my king on the middle board?checkmate. I giggle as my king melts. While itÅfs still
bubbling, I move a knight forward on the board to my right, then sit back and twiddle my thumbs, whistling
tunelessly.
ÅgThis show of indifference does not become you,Åh Lord Loss says stiffly, attacking my knight with a pawn.
ÅgNo show,Åh I smile, switching play to the board on my far left, shoving a rook deep into enemy territory,
barely thinking about it, not pausing afterwards to check my opponentÅfs response.
ÅgThis is ridiculous, Grubitsch,Åh Lord Loss says.
He fakes an encouraging smile. ÅgIf you throw the game away, you throw your life away too. You are
already two games down. You cannot afford to lose again. You must concentrate. If not, you and your
uncle?Åh
ÅgChess is dumb,Åh I interrupt. ÅgLike all games, itÅfs silly and pointless. People who take it seriously are fools.
IÅfm sorry, but I canÅft pretend to respect your foolishness any longer, regardless of whatÅfs at stake.Åh
The demon masterÅfs lips peel back from his sharp grey teeth. ÅgI could reach across and crush you into a
million pieces!Åh he hisses.
ÅgBut that wonÅft silence my laughter,Åh I giggle. ÅgHave you moved?Åh I lean forward to advance a pawn on the
board to my left.
ÅgLeave that alone!Åh he shouts. ÅgI havenÅft had my turn yet!Åh
ÅgWell hurry up,Åh I tut. ÅgIÅfve wasted enough time on this rubbish. LetÅfs get it over and done with.Åh
Lord Loss trembles. Starts to say something. Catches himself. Mutters darkly and takes one of my pawns
on the far left board. Before heÅfs placed it on the desk, I push forward the pawn on the board to my near
left, and once again fall back to studying my thumbs, twirling them mindlessly, thinking about summer,
TV, music?anything except Lord Loss, his familiars and chess.
Lord Loss isnÅft smiling any longer. His features are contorted with hatred. He takes long, agonised
pauses before each move?not to drag the torment out, but because heÅfs unsure of himself.
I think about cracking jokes or singing songs, but I donÅft want to go overboard. Indifference is infuriating
enough. HeÅfs unaccustomed to opponents showing no interest in the match or their fate. HeÅfs had long,
delicious decades of pressure contests, feeding off the anxiety of those he faces, growing strong on it. He
doesnÅft know how to cope with a vacant, yawning teenager.
I donÅft play blindly, but I play recklessly, pushing forward on all three boards, taking wild chances,
surrendering myself to the random mechanics of chess. IÅfm presenting Lord Loss with more chances to
finish me off than he could have ever dreamt of?but he fails to capitalise on them. HeÅfs too agitated to
press for the kill. He fumblingly takes a few of my pieces but doesnÅft follow up on the captures.
And then I start taking his pieces.
I capture pawns first, a few on each board. I line them up in neat little rows, toying with them while he
contemplates his moves. Then one of his knights falls prey to my queen on the board to my right. On the
far left board I take a rook and bishop in quick succession. While he struggles to shore up his defences
on that board, I push my queen ahead on the board next to it?straight into the path of a black bishop.
Lord Loss gasps, his face lighting up. He sweeps the bishop forward, giggling intensely, eyes shining
evilly.
I snort at the demon masterÅfs pleasure and slip a knight in behind his bishop. ÅgCheck.Åh
He freezes. Stares at the knight, then his king, then the captured queen in the mangled palm of his hand.
His jaw quivers, then firms. ÅgA clever strategy,Åh he commends me with icy politeness.
ÅgActually, I only saw the opening as you were removing my queen,Åh I answer honestly. ÅgLucky, I
guess?though luck always plays a part in childish games like these.Åh
Lord Loss turns his face away in disgust. ÅgYou are a disgrace to the game,Åh he growls.
ÅgSo punish me,Åh I goad him. ÅgMake me pay. Put me in my place.Åh I adopt a very young childÅfs challenging
tone. ÅgDare ya!Åh
He hisses. Fixes his gaze on the boards. Studies them feverishly.
I pick at the nail of my left index finger and wonder if I should start using clippers instead of scissors.
The balance of power lurches wildly between us. Lord Loss works hard to take three of my pawns. I
respond by idly chasing his king with my knight on the board to my left, the one on which I lost my queen.
He blocks my path, attacks my knight and does all he can to repulse me, but I hang in there, amused by
his failure to capture my knight. After a while I start thinking how lonely he looks, a single white knight
stranded amidst a sea of black, and to provide him with company, I press forward with a bishop and a
rook.
Lord Loss throws everything into smashing the three white irritants. He abandons attack completely and
chases my knight, bishop and rook as though they were responsible for some personal insult. After
several frenzied twists and cutbacks, he traps my bishop and chuckles fiercely. ÅgNext move?itÅfs mine!Åh
ÅgI reckon youÅfre right,Åh I sigh, then grin impishly and push a pawn forward. IÅfm not quite sure how it got
there, but itÅfs now only one space away from the end of the board, where I can exchange it for any piece I
like. ÅgBut on the move after that, my pawn becomes a queen?much preferable to a bishop, donÅft you
think?Åh
Lord Loss stares at the pawn, then the knight, then back at the pawn.
Two of his spare arms unfold around him. He covers his eyes. And moans.
ÅgCheckmate.Åh
I mutter the word emotionlessly and scratch my left elbow. ÅgCan I make your king melt?Åh I ask curiously.
Lord Loss doesnÅft respond. His eyes are fixed on the trapped king on the board to my left, as though he
can spot a way out if he looks at it long enough.
ÅgI asked if I could make your?Åh
The black king explodes into tiny shards. I duck to avoid the flying bits of crystal. When I look again, Lord
LossÅfs face is peppered with shiny splinters. Blood trickles from the cuts.
ÅgYou should take more pride in your appearance,Åh I tell him. ÅgYouÅfll never attract girls with an ugly mug
like that.Åh
ÅgIÅfll see you suffer for this,Åh he says hoarsely, red eyes bulging. ÅgWin or lose, IÅfll find a way to pay you
back for the insults youÅfve dealt me tonight.Åh
ÅgI donÅft know what youÅfre talking about,Åh I smile. ÅgIt surely canÅft be an insult to show no interest in a game
in which I have no interest.Åh
ÅgLater,Åh Lord Loss hisses, head shaking violently. ÅgLater!Åh
He turns to the board on my right?the one with the Incan pieces?and broods over it in menacing
silence, collecting his thoughts.
