him up for a burnt offering in the stead
of his son.
And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah-jireh : as it is
said to this day, In the mount of the Lord it shall be seen.
   And the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham out of heaven
the second time,
and said, By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou
hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son,
that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply
thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon
the seashore ; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies ;
and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed ; because
thou hast obeyed my voice.
So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and
went together to Beer-sheba ; and Abraham dwelt at Beer-sheba.
49 Genesis 23
   And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham,
saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also borne children unto thy
brother Nahor ;
Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of
Aram,
and Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
And Bethuel begat Rebekah : these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor,
Abraham’s brother.
And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah,
and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.
23
Abraham Buys a Burial Ground for Sarah
And Sarah was a hundred and seven and twenty years old : these
were the years of the life of Sarah.
And Sarah died in Kirjath-arba ; the same is Hebron in the land of
Canaan : and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for
her.
And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the
sons of Heth, saying,
I am a stranger and a sojourner with you : give me a possession of a
buryingplace with you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight.
And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him,
Hear us, my lord : thou art a mighty prince among us : in the choice
of our sepulchres bury thy dead ; none of us shall withhold from
thee his sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.
And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the
land, even to the children of Heth.
And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I
should bury my dead out of my sight, hear me, and entreat for me
to Ephron the son of Zohar,

50 Genesis 23
that he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he hath, which
is in the end of his field ; for as much money as it is worth he shall
give it me for a possession of a buryingplace amongst you.
And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth : and Ephron the
Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth,
even of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying,
Nay, my lord, hear me : the field give I thee, and the cave that is
therein, I give it thee ; in the presence of the sons of my people give
I it thee : bury thy dead.
And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land.
And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the
land, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, hear me : I will give
thee money for the field ; take it of me, and I will bury my dead
there.
And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him,
My lord, hearken unto me : the land is worth four hundred shekels
of silver ; what is that betwixt me and thee ? bury therefore thy
dead.
And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron ; and Abraham weighed to
Ephron the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons
of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the
merchant.
   And the field of Ephron, which was in Machpelah, which was
before Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all
the trees that were in the field, that were in all the borders round
about, were made sure
unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of
Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.
And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the
field of Machpelah before Mamre : the same is Hebron in the land
of Canaan.
And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto
Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.

51 Genesis 24
24
A Wife Obtained for Isaac
And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age : and the Lord had
blessed Abraham in all things.
And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled
over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh :
and I will make thee swear by the Lord, the God of heaven, and
the God of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of
the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell :
but thou shalt go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a
wife unto my son Isaac.
And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not
be willing to follow me unto this land : must I needs bring thy son
again unto the land from whence thou camest ?
And Abraham said unto him, Beware thou that thou bring not my
son thither again.
The Lord God of heaven, which took me from my father’s house,
and from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and
that sware unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land ; he
shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my
son from thence.
And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou
shalt be clear from this my oath : only bring not my son thither
again.
And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his
master, and sware to him concerning that matter.
   And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and
departed ; for all the goods of his master were in his hand : and he
arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.
And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well of
water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out
to draw water.

52 Genesis 24
And he said, O Lord God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send
me good speed this day, and show kindness unto my master
Abraham.
Behold, I stand here by the well of water ; and the daughters of the
men of the city come out to draw water :
and let it come to pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let
down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink ; and she shall say,
Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also : let the same be she that
thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac ; and thereby shall I know
that thou hast showed kindness unto my master.
   And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold,
Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the
wife of Nahor, Abraham’s brother, with her pitcher upon her
shoulder.
And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had
any man known her : and she went down to the well, and filled her
pitcher, and came up.
And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Let me, I pray thee,
drink a little water of thy pitcher.
And she said, Drink, my lord : and she hasted, and let down her
pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.
And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw
water for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.
And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran
again unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels.
And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether the
Lord had made his journey prosperous or not.
   And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the
man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two
bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold ;
and said, Whose daughter art thou ? tell me, I pray thee : is there
room in thy father’s house for us to lodge in ?
And she said unto him, I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of
Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor.

53 Genesis 24
She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender
enough, and room to lodge in.
And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the Lord.
And he said, Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham, who
hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth : I being
in the way, the Lord led me to the house of my master’s brethren.
   And the damsel ran, and told them of her mother’s house these
things.
And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban : and Laban
ran out unto the man, unto the well.
And it came to pass, when he saw the earring, and bracelets upon
his sister’s hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his
sister, saying, Thus spake the man unto me, that he came unto the
man ; and, behold, he stood by the camels at the well.
And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the Lord ; wherefore
standest thou without ? for I have prepared the house, and room for
the camels.
And the man came into the house : and he ungirded his camels, and
gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his
feet, and the men’s feet that were with him.
And there was set meat before him to eat : but he said, I will not eat,
until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.
   And he said, I am Abraham’s servant.
And the Lord hath blessed my master greatly, and he is become
great : and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold,
and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses.
And Sarah my master’s wife bare a son to my master when she was
old : and unto him hath he given all that he hath.
And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife
to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I
dwell :
but thou shalt go unto my father’s house, and to my kindred, and
take a wife unto my son.
And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will not
follow me.

54 Genesis 24
And he said unto me, The Lord, before whom I walk, will send his
angel with thee, and prosper thy way ; and thou shalt take a wife for
my son of my kindred, and of my father’s house :
then shalt thou be clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my
kindred ; and if they give not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my
oath.
   And I came this day unto the well, and said, O Lord God of my
master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way which I go :
behold, I stand by the well of water ; and it shall come to pass, that
when the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give
me, I pray thee, a little water of thy pitcher to drink ;
and she say to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy
camels : let the same be the woman whom the Lord hath appointed
out for my master’s son.
   And before I had done speaking in mine heart, behold, Rebekah
came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder ; and she went down
unto the well, and drew water : and I said unto her, Let me drink, I
pray thee.
And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder,
and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also : so I drank,
and she made the camels drink also.
And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou ? And she said,
The daughter of Bethuel, Nahors son, whom Milcah bare unto
him : and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon
her hands.
And I bowed down my head, and worshipped the Lord, and
blessed the Lord God of my master Abraham, which had led me in
the right way to take my master’s brother’s daughter unto his son.
And now, if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me :
and if not, tell me ; that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left.
   Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing
proceedeth from the Lord : we cannot speak unto thee bad or
good.
Behold, Rebekah is before thee ; take her, and go, and let her be thy
master’s son’s wife, as the Lord hath spoken.

55 Genesis 24
   And it came to pass, that, when Abraham’s servant heard their
words, he worshipped the Lord, bowing himself to the earth.
And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of gold,
and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah : he gave also to her brother
and to her mother precious things.
And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him,
and tarried all night ; and they rose up in the morning, and he said,
Send me away unto my master.
And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with us
a few days, at the least ten ; after that she shall go.
And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the Lord hath
prospered my way ; send me away that I may go to my master.
And they said, We will call the damsel, and inquire at her mouth.
And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go with this
man ? And she said, I will go.
And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and
Abraham’s servant, and his men.
And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our sister ;
be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed possess
the gate of those which hate them.
And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the
camels, and followed the man : and the servant took Rebekah, and
went his way.
   And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahai-roi ; for he dwelt
in the south country.
And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide : and he
lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming.
And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she
lighted off the camel.
For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh in
the field to meet us ? And the servant had said, It is my master :
therefore she took a veil, and covered herself.
And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done.

56 Genesis 25
And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah’s tent, and took
Rebekah, and she became his wife ; and he loved her : and Isaac was
comforted after his mother’s death.
25
Abraham’s Descendants through Keturah
Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah.
And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian,
and Ishbak, and Shuah.
And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were
Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
And the sons of Midian ; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and
Abidah, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.
And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.
But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had,
Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while
he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country.
The Death and Burial of Abraham
   And these are the days of the years of Abraham’s life which he
lived, a hundred threescore and fifteen years.
Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old
man, and full of years ; and was gathered to his people.
And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of
Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite,
which is before Mamre ;
the field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth : there was
Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.
And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed
his son Isaac ; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahai-roi.

57 Genesis 25
The Descendants of Ishmael
   Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, whom
Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s handmaid, bare unto Abraham :
and these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names,
according to their generations : the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth ;
and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah :
these are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their
towns, and by their castles ; twelve princes according to their
nations.
And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, a hundred and thirty
and seven years : and he gave up the ghost and died, and was
gathered unto his people.
And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as
thou goest toward Assyria : and he died in the presence of all his
brethren.
The Birth of Esau and Jacob
   And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham’s son : Abraham
begat Isaac :
and Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the
daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padan-aram, the sister to Laban
the Syrian.
And Isaac entreated the Lord for his wife, because she was barren :
and the Lord was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife
conceived.
And the children struggled together within her ; and she said, If it be
so, why am I thus ? And she went to inquire of the Lord.
And the Lord said unto her,
Two nations are in thy womb,
and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels ;
and the one people shall be stronger than the other people ;

58 Genesis 26
and the elder shall serve the younger.
And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were
twins in her womb.
And the first came out red, all over like a hairy garment ; and they
called his name Esau.
And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on
Esau’s heel ; and his name was called Jacob : and Isaac was threescore
years old when she bare them.
Esau Sells His Birthright
   And the boys grew : and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the
field ; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.
And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison : but
Rebekah loved Jacob.
   And Jacob sod pottage : and Esau came from the field, and he was
faint :
and Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red
pottage ; for I am faint : therefore was his name called Edom [red].
And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.
And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die : and what profit
shall this birthright do to me ?
And Jacob said, Swear to me this day ; and he sware unto him : and
he sold his birthright unto Jacob.
Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils ; and he did eat
and drink, and rose up, and went his way. Thus Esau despised his
birthright.
26
Isaac at Gerar
And there was a famine in the land, besides the first famine that
was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king
of the Philistines unto Gerar.

59 Genesis 26
And the Lord appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into
Egypt ; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of.
Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee ; for
unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I
will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father ;
and I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will
give unto thy seed all these countries ; and in thy seed shall all the
nations of the earth be blessed :
because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my
commandments, my statutes, and my laws.
   And Isaac dwelt in Gerar.
And the men of the place asked him of his wife ; and he said, She is
my sister : for he feared to say, She is my wife ; lest, said he, the men
of the place should kill me for Rebekah ; because she was fair to look
upon.
And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that
Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw,
and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife.
And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is thy
wife : and how saidst thou, She is my sister ? And Isaac said unto
him, Because I said, Lest I die for her.
And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us ? one of
the people might lightly have lain with thy wife, and thou
shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us.
And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth
this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.
   Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year a
hundredfold : and the Lord blessed him.
And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he
became very great :
for he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great
store of servants : and the Philistines envied him.
For all the wells which his father’s servants had digged in the days
of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled
them with earth.

60 Genesis 26
And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us ; for thou art much
mightier than we.
   And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of
Gerar, and dwelt there.
And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in
the days of Abraham his father ; for the Philistines had stopped
them after the death of Abraham : and he called their names after
the names by which his father had called them.
And Isaac’s servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of
springing water.
And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac’s herdmen, saying,
The water is ours : and he called the name of the well Esek
[contention] ; because they strove with him.
And they digged another well, and strove for that also : and he
called the name of it Sitnah [hatred].
And he removed from thence, and digged another well ; and for
that they strove not : and he called the name of it Rehoboth [room] ;
and he said, For now the Lord hath made room for us, and we
shall be fruitful in the land.
   And he went up from thence to Beer-sheba.
And the Lord appeared unto him the same night, and said, I am
the God of Abraham thy father : fear not, for I am with thee, and
will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham’s
sake.
And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the
Lord, and pitched his tent there : and there Isaac’s servants digged
a well.
   Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of
his friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.
And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate
me, and have sent me away from you ?
And they said, We saw certainly that the Lord was with thee : and
we said, Let there be now an oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and
thee, and let us make a covenant with thee ;

61 Genesis 27
that thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as
we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away
in peace : thou art now the blessed of the Lord.
And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.
And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to
another : and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in
peace.
And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac’s servants came, and
told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto
him, We have found water.
And he called it Shebah : therefore the name of the city is Beersheba
unto this day.
   And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the
daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon
the Hittite :
which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.
27
Jacob Obtains Isaac’s Blessing
And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were
dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said
unto him, My son : and he said unto him, Behold, here am I.
And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my
death :
now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver and thy
bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison ;
and make me savory meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I
may eat ; that my soul may bless thee before I die.
   And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau
went to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.
And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy
father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying,

62 Genesis 27
Bring me venison, and make me savory meat, that I may eat, and
bless thee before the Lord before my death.
Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I
command thee.
Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of the
goats ; and I will make them savory meat for thy father, such as he
loveth :
and thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may eat, and that he
may bless thee before his death.
And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is a
hairy man, and I am a smooth man :
my father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a
deceiver ; and I shall bring a curse upon me, and not a blessing.
And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son : only
obey my voice, and go fetch me them.
And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother : and his
mother made savory meat, such as his father loved.
And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which
were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger
son :
and she put the skins of the kids of
