THE CHOICE
ÅgYouÅfre loco!Åh I scream. ÅgSheer bloody nuts!Åh
ÅgIÅfm many things,Åh Dervish answers calmly, Ågbut I donÅft think IÅfm crazy.Åh
ÅgYou must be! Only a crazy man would ask a kid to fight a couple of demons!Åh
Dervish studies me quietly, then gets to his feet and picks up his Lord of the Rings chess set. He heads
for the door.
ÅgWhere are you going?Åh I snap, lurching in front of him, blocking the way.
ÅgIÅfm taking this down to the cellar,Åh he says. ÅgI need to have five sets in place before I summon Lord
Loss?each game is played on a separate board.Åh
ÅgDidnÅft you hear me?Åh I hiss. ÅgI wonÅft do it! IÅfm not?Åh
ÅgGrubbs,Åh he silences me with a smile. ÅgItÅfs OK. I asked. You refused. ThatÅfs the end of it. It was a
request, not a command.Åh
I glare at him suspiciously. ÅgIt was?Åh
He nods. ÅgThere are others who can help. One of my friends is a near grandmaster. HeÅfll face Lord Loss.
IÅfll handle Vein and Artery.Åh He nods at a plain chess board to my left. ÅgBut IÅfd be obliged if youÅfd help me
carry the sets down.Åh
My eyes narrow. ÅgIf youÅfre trying to trick meÅcÅh
ÅgNo tricks,Åh he says, and I believe him. Getting out of his way, I pick up the board and follow him out of the
room.
Down the stairs to the main hall. Taking our time, careful not to drop any pieces. Thinking hard about
what Dervish said.
ÅgIf youÅfve got friends who can help,Åh I mutter, Ågwhy ask me?Åh
ÅgBillyÅfs your brother,Åh Dervish replies. ÅgI thought you might want to be part of this.Åh
ÅgBut it doesnÅft make sense,Åh I press. ÅgYou need the best person for the job. Why offer it to me?Åh
ÅgIdeally I want to face Lord Loss with someone whoÅfs proved their courage and ability under fire,Åh he says.
ÅgSomeone whoÅfs faced a demon and lived. I only personally know six people whoÅfve done that. Meera
was one of them. But she canÅft do it now.Åh
ÅgWhat about the others?Åh
ÅgFour of them are currently out of contact.Åh
He reaches the door to the cellar and stops talking while he opens it with his elbows. Silence as we
descend. I wait until weÅfre at the wine rack which hides the entrance to the secret passageway before
asking, ÅgAnd the sixth?Åh
ÅgYouÅfre the sixth,Åh he says, stepping forward into darkness.
The secret cellar. Five chess sets lie in place on the three tables, which weÅfve shoved together, piling the
books and other odds and ends on the floor. Dervish is lining up the pieces, making sure theyÅfre in the
right places. Bill-EÅfs still chewing on the deer carcass. He spits and snarls at us every so often.
Dervish hasnÅft said anything since our trip down with the first two boards. WeÅfve worked silently, carting in
the boards and pieces, clearing the tables and rearranging them. ItÅfs only now, while I watch him adjust
the pieces, that I work up the courage to broach the subject again.
ÅgI still donÅft understand why you want me to help. Why not wait for Meera to recover? You donÅft have to
stage the contest tonight, do you?Åh
ÅgNo,Åh Dervish says. ÅgBut waitingÅfs dangerous. Lord Loss can reverse the change, even in one whoÅfs been
a werewolf for several years. But often the mind canÅft be restored. Every day we wait drives Bill-E closer
to the point from which itÅfs not worth bringing him back.
ÅgBesides,Åh he adds, Åghow would we explain his absence to his grandparents, teachers, the police? WeÅfre
in the middle of an unreal adventure, but weÅfre still part of the real world. Try telling a cop youÅfve got a
boy locked up in a cage because heÅfs a werewolf?see where it lands you!Åh
ÅgI didnÅft think of that.Åh I manage a sick smile, which quickly fades. ÅgIÅfm just a kid,Åh I say quietly. ÅgI wouldnÅft
be any good to you.Åh
Dervish wipes a spot of dust from the head of a king. ÅgYouÅfve fought demons and lived to tell the tale.
YouÅfve tapped into your magic potential. You can fight them on their own terms?even if you are just a
kid,Åh he adds with a grin.
ÅgI want to help,Åh I groan. ÅgIÅfd do almost anything to get Bill-E out of the hell heÅfs in. But I saw Artery work
Gret like a puppet, and?Åh
ÅgDonÅft beat yourself up over it,Åh Dervish interrupts kindly. ÅgYouÅfre under no obligation. You came here to
recover, not get dragged deeper into a nightmare. I shouldnÅft have asked. And I wouldnÅft have, exceptÅcÅh
He doesnÅft finish, so I say it for him. ÅgÅcexcept you need me.Åh
He shrugs. ÅgLike I said, thereÅfs a friend I can call. But IÅfd rather have you. If I told you anything else, IÅfd be
a liar.Åh
Studying Bill-E as Dervish fetches weapons. His face and hands red with the deerÅfs blood. Patting his
stomach. Smiling jaggedly. Gazing at me through unnatural yellow eyes.
Thinking about Lord Loss. Recalling the ferocious power and speed of Artery and Vein. Fearing for my
uncleÅfs and brotherÅfs lives.
Dervish enters with a small axe, a mace and a sword. Lays them on the floor with the others heÅfs already
installed. Part of the rules?he can use as many weapons as he pleases.
ÅgWould you want me to play chess or fight?Åh I ask, wishing I could keep my mouth shut.
ÅgIÅfve seen you play,Åh Dervish says. ÅgNo offence, but youÅfd have to fight?Lord Loss would crush you on
the chess boards.Åh
ÅgBut youÅfd stand a better chance against Vein and Artery than me,Åh I counter. ÅgYouÅfre stronger and
experienced. I know nothing about weapons or magic.Åh
ÅgYou donÅft have to,Åh Dervish says. ÅgThe magic knows you. ThatÅfs what matters. You tapped into your
potential when you faced the demons before. YouÅfd tap into it again. Instinct.Åh
ÅgBut youÅfre the logical choice,Åh I insist. ÅgYouÅfd be better than me.Åh
Dervish nods sombrely. ÅgProbably.Åh
ÅgAnd your friendÅfs better at chess than me. So you fighting and him playing is the ideal partnership.
Right?Åh
Dervish looks at me curiously. ÅgYou donÅft have to talk yourself out of this,Åh he says. ÅgYouÅfve said you donÅft
want to do it and IÅfve accepted your decision.Åh
ÅgBut I feel lousy!Åh I cry. ÅgLike IÅfm letting you down!Åh
ÅgYouÅfre not,Åh Dervish says. ÅgAbility and potential mean nothing if the will to compete isnÅft there.Åh
ÅgBut even if I had the will, youÅfd still be better off with the other guy, wouldnÅft you?Åh I press, hoping heÅfll
agree.
Dervish shakes his head and doesnÅft answer.
The room where Meera lies unconscious. Dervish tries again to wake her. Again he fails. He returns to his
study, rubbing the back of his neck. Sitting behind his desk, he runs his fingers over a phone book. ÅgTime
to call my friend,Åh he says, glancing up at me. ÅgFinal chance to change your mind, Grubbs.Åh
I donÅft say a word.
Dervish opens the book and searches for a number. ÅgPablo should be here within a few hours. You can
go stay in the Vale if you want, but you donÅft need to. YouÅfll be safe here. The demons wonÅft be able to
leave the cellar.Åh
I donÅft reply. Thinking of the battle to come. Filled with shame.
ÅgIf Pablo and I defeat Lord Loss and his familiars, but I lose the one-on-one fight later,Åh Dervish continues,
ÅgyouÅfll have to take care of me.Åh
ÅgWhat?Åh I mumble.
ÅgMy body will survive if I lose the battle after the chess match,Åh he explains, Ågbut my soul and mind wonÅft.
IÅfll be able to move about, but I wonÅft be capable of thought or speech. I wonÅft be able to shop, pay bills,
cook, clean the house, etc. YouÅfll have to babysit me, or hire somebody to do it.Åh
Dervish taps a drawer in his desk. ÅgThe necessary forms and information sheets are here. Names and
numbers of lawyers and bankers, details of various credit accounts. You have my permission?written as
well as verbal?to manage my estate as you see fit, though a large portion will remain in the hands of
your legal guardians until you come of age.Åh
ÅgI donÅft want your money,Åh I sniff.
ÅgYou wonÅft feel that way always,Åh he smiles. Picks up the phone. Hesitates. Lays it down. ÅgOne last thing.
If things pan out bad, IÅfll appear no better than a mindless robot. You might feel sorry for me, be tempted
to put me out of my misery.Åh
ÅgI wouldnÅft do that!Åh I shout. ÅgIÅfm not a killer! I couldnÅft?Åh
ÅgYou could,Åh Dervish cuts me short. ÅgMost people are capable of extreme actions when pushed.Åh He licks
his lips nervously. ÅgYou mustnÅft. Time is different in the DemonataÅfs universe. ThereÅfs no telling how long
our fight could last. The few whoÅfve fought him and returned have been absent for monthsÅc yearsÅc on
one occasion, decades.
ÅgNo matter how much time passes, thereÅfs always hope,Åh he says. ÅgDonÅft give up on me, Grubbs. Look
after my body. I might have need of it again some day.Åh
He finds the number in the book, picks up the phone and starts dialing.
ÅgWait,Åh I stop him. He looks up expectantly. I lick my lips nervously. ÅgWhat happens if you donÅft win and I
turn into a werewolf later?Åh
DervishÅfs features soften. ÅgAnd the wolf shall lie down with the lamb.Åh
ÅgCome again?Åh I frown.
ÅgItÅfs a biblical quote. Isaiah. ItÅfs where the Lambs got their name from.Åh He jerks his head at the desk.
ÅgThereÅfs a black folder in the second drawer down on the left. Names and numbers for the Lambs.
Contact them if the need arises. But only do it if youÅfre sure that youÅfre changing. The Lambs donÅft mess
around. Once you set them in motion, they wonÅft stop, even if you change your mind and try to call them
off.Åh
ÅgHow will I know?Åh I ask. ÅgBill-E didnÅft know he was changing.Åh
Dervish chews on his lower lip in thoughtful silence, then says, ÅgNobody turns without warning. If the
lycanthropy strikes, thereÅfll be at least two or three full moons during which you wonÅft physically alter, but
run wild like Bill-E did. You wonÅft be able to recall such episodes, but if you find blood under your
fingernails, animal hairs between your teethÅcÅh Dervish stiffens and speaks roughly ÅgÅcthatÅfs when you
need to think about calling in the Lambs.Åh
As I stare at him miserably, Dervish returns his attention to the phone and hits the buttons. The phone at
the other end is picked up almost instantly. I hear a man say, ÅgYes?Åh
Dervish starts to reply.
ÅgTell him itÅfs OK,Åh I interrupt softly. ÅgTell him you rang his number by accident.Åh
ÅgGrubbs, you donÅft have to?Åh
ÅgI wonÅft live with the threat of the change hanging over me. Or with the guilt of not fighting for Bill-E.Åh Deep
breath. Thinking?crazy for doing this. But also?itÅfs what Dad would have wanted.
ÅgIÅfll do it,Åh I wheeze. ÅgIÅfll fight Vein and Artery.Åh The thinnest, most fleeting of smiles. Mock bravado.
Grubbs Grady?demon killer! ÅgIÅfm your man.Åh
THE SUMMONING
The cellar. Bill-E beating at the bars of his cage with a bloody leg heÅfs torn from the deer, howling madly.
Dervish checking the chess boards and weapons, ignoring Bill-E. I want him to talk me out of it, tell me itÅfs
madness, reject my offer.
But he says nothing. In the study, he didnÅft even ask if I was sure, just nodded once and told Pablo heÅfd
call him some other time. Then it was straight back here. No ÅgThank you,Åh or ÅgWell done, Grubbs,Åh or ÅgIÅfm
proud of you.Åh
I examine the chess boards with forced interest, desperate to keep my mind off the weapons. Five boards
laid in a line across the three tables. The Lord of the Rings set in the centre, flanked by a board of crystal
pieces on one side and Incan-fashioned pieces on the other. The sets at either end are ordinary.
ÅgDid you lay the boards out that way for a reason?Åh I ask Dervish.
ÅgNo,Åh he replies, testing a swordÅfs handle, wiping it clean. ÅgThe sets donÅft matter, as long as there are
five.Åh
ÅgExplain how the contest works,Åh I urge him.
ÅgThe games are played simultaneously,Åh Dervish says without looking over. ÅgWhen itÅfs my turn, I can
move any piece I like, on any board. Lord Loss can then reply to the piece IÅfve moved, or move a piece
on a different board.Åh
ÅgThat must be confusing.Åh
ÅgYes. But itÅfs confusing for him too.Åh Dervish holds an axe up to the light of a thick candle and squints,
judging the sharpness of its blade. ÅgLord Loss is an accomplished player, and heÅfs had centuries to work
on his game, but he has no supernatural advantage. If I keep my head, focus on the moves and donÅft
lose my nerve, IÅfll stand a fair chance.Åh
ÅgWhat sort of chance do I stand against Artery and Vein?Åh I ask.
Dervish looks at me coldly?then whips his arm forward and sends the axe flying straight at me!
Instant reaction?I spin?my left hand flies out?my fingers close around the axe handle mid-air?I arc it
down, taking the speed out of it?then raise it high to defend myself, heart racing, confused and afraid.
Then I see my uncleÅfs grin.
Breathing hard, I stare at Dervish, then at the axe in my hand.
ÅgThat sort,Åh he says.
ÅgI still donÅft know how I caught it,Åh I grumble, as Dervish searches among his books for a particular
volume.
ÅgYou donÅft have to know,Åh Dervish says. ÅgItÅfs magic.Åh He pauses and looks up at me. ÅgYour instincts have
been sharpened by your previous encounter with the demons. Obey those instincts. Let Vein and Artery
set the tone and pace of the battle. React. DonÅft think. Suspend the laws of reality completely.Åh
Dervish returns his attention to the books, finds the one heÅfs after, flicks it open and stands. ÅgMake your
inexperience work for you,Åh he says. ÅgYou canÅft out-plan or out-think the demons. So donÅft try. Just go
with the flow.Åh
ÅgYou make it sound easy.Åh
ÅgIt certainly wonÅft be easy! But if you switch your brain off, youÅfll be amazed by what your body can do.Åh
Dervish lays the book on the floor, bends over it and reads a passage, running a finger over the words,
muttering softly.
ÅgWhat are you doing?Åh I ask.
ÅgSeveral spells must be cast to open a window between Lord LossÅfs world and ours,Åh Dervish says. ÅgI
have to make sure itÅfs a small gateway?we donÅft want other demons following him through.Åh
ÅgThat can happen?Åh
ÅgSure. The Demonata are always eager to cross the divide and wreak havoc. TheyÅfll seize any opening
which presents itself.Åh
ÅgBut donÅft you know the spells already?Åh I frown. ÅgI thought you summoned him before.Åh
ÅgI did,Åh Dervish nods. ÅgSeveral times. But some spells are best not memorised.Åh
He finishes the paragraph and closes the book. Walks to the wall to his left and lays both hands on it. ÅgIÅfm
starting now,Åh he says, Ågbut itÅfll be twenty minutes, maybe half an hour before the window opens. Stay
close to the tables. Relax. DonÅft distract me.Åh
While I lean against a table, nervously tapping and scratching at the wood, Dervish mutters arcane words
at the wall, drawing signs upon it with his fingers. After a few minutes, steam seeps from the rough stone.
Dervish leans into the steam, inhales, turns and breathes out.
A shadowy bat flies from his mouth and flits across the cellar. I duck instinctively, even though itÅfs
nowhere near me. When I look again, the bat has vanished and Dervish has moved on to another patch
of wall.
Fifteen minutes into the summoning. All the walls are steaming. The air of the cellar is moist and hot, like
in a sauna. Bill-E makes deep choking noises and flaps at the air with blood-red hands. Dervish has been
breathing out a variety of smoky creatures?bats, snakes, dogs, insects. As I watch, he turns and exhales
his largest yet?a full-sized wolf.
Bill-E gibbers wildly at the sight. Hisses at it, then ducks to the rear of his cage and crouches low,
whimpering, as the spirit wolf floats towards him, evaporating before it touches the bars.
At any other time IÅfd feel pity for the poor beast Bill-E has become, but right now thereÅfs only room in my
heart for terror.
Dervish steps away from the walls at last, eyes closed, face contorted. Walks directly to the folder
containing the Lord Loss drawings. Picks it up and clutches it to his chest.
ÅgThis is where things get weird,Åh he mutters, as steam pours from the walls and transparent worms drift in
and out of his mouth.
ÅgI canÅft wait,Åh I half-laugh, almost hysterical.
ÅgWhatever happens, donÅft scream,Åh Dervish says. ÅgWeÅfre at our most vulnerable while IÅfm searching the
various portals for the one which connects with Lord LossÅfs realm. A scream could attract the interest of
other demons?and that might be the end of us.Åh
ÅgWeÅfll probably end on a grisly note anyway,Åh I say gloomily.
ÅgPerhaps,Åh Dervish agrees. ÅgBut there are worse demons than Lord Loss.Åh
My thoughts threaten to spin out of control as I try to imagine anything worse than Lord Loss. Then
Dervish spreads his arms and barks a loud command, and the world dissolves around me.
Walls and ceiling fading. Infinite spaceÅc a scattering of starsÅcmeteors streak across the sky. But this
space isnÅft black?itÅfs red. An unending sky of redness, encircling the cellar like the drapes of hell.
The temperature escalates off the scale. Some of DervishÅfs books burst into flame and incinerate
instantly. The bars of Bill-EÅfs cage glow from the heat. All the candles in the cellar melt to the wick.
I check my clothes and hair, expecting flames, but although I can feel the terrible heat, it isnÅft burning me.
Dervish and Bill-E arenÅft harmed either. Nor are the chess sets.
ÅgWhy arenÅft we toast?Åh I cry. The words come out as a croak?my mouth and throat are unbelievably dry.
ÅgProtected,Åh Dervish wheezes in reply, then lays a finger to his lips and shakes his head?no more
speaking. He points to a meteor screaming across the sky overhead. As I gaze up, I realise it isnÅft a
meteor?itÅfs some enormous, incomprehensible, reality-defying monster!
Dervish squats and places both palms on the floor, which ripples beneath his touch, as if made of water.
Muttering some spell?or prayer?he turns in a circle. His eyes are yellow when I next catch sight of his
face, his teeth sharp and grey.
I open my mouth to scream?remember his warning?shut my lips quickly.
Dervish continues turning, and when he faces me again he looks normal. Standing, he picks up one of
the unburnt books, flicks it open and starts singing. Long, complicated words. His voice unnaturally clear
and beautiful.
The red sky shimmers, then darkens, as Dervish sings. I lose sight of the stars and meteor-monsters. The
room slips into a hot, fearful blackness?no candles to shed any light. The last thing I see?Dervish, eyes
closed, singing as though his life depended on it.
I feel alone in the darkness, though I know by DervishÅfs singing and Bill-EÅfs grunts and whines that IÅfm
not. Whistling sounds around me. Something long and silky brushes against my cheeks. I swipe at it,
terrified?nothing there.
Dervish stops singing. The sudden silence is as disorienting as the lack of light.
ÅgDervish?Åh I whisper, not wishing to distract him, but needing to know heÅfs still there.
ÅgItÅfs OK, Grubbs,Åh comes his voice. ÅgDonÅft move.Åh
ÅgItÅfs dark,Åh I note redundantly.
ÅgWeÅfll have all the light we care for soon enough,Åh he promises.
An object brushes my left ear. I flinch. ÅgThereÅfs something in the room with us!Åh I hiss.
ÅgYes,Åh Dervish says. ÅgTake no notice. Stand your ground.Åh
It isnÅft easy, but I obey my uncleÅfs order. The whistling sounds increase in volume, and IÅfm struck in
various places by what feels like thick strands of rope. I wince and rub at my flesh, but otherwise donÅft
react.
Gradually I notice a dull grey glow all around me, which grows in strength, illuminating the distorted cellar.
The walls have been replaced by thick strands of cobwebs, which stretch away, layer after layer,
apparently endless. Many of the strands are stained with blood. Some are as thick as a tree trunk, while
others are as thin as a line of thread.
From one of the strands hang the severed heads of Mum, Dad and Gret.
I canÅft hold back the scream, but Dervish anticipates this. He slides behind me and clamps both hands
over my mouth. I howl into the flesh of his palms, wild, sobbing, reaching for the heads, while at the same
time trying to back away from them.
ÅgThey arenÅft real, Grubbs,Åh Dervish grunts, struggling to contain me. ÅgTheyÅfre illusions. Let your fear go
and theyÅfll vanish.Åh
I thrash more wildly in response. CanÅft think straight. The heads seem to be growing. Eyes huge, filled
with sadness and pain. MumÅfs lips move silently. Gret sticks her tongue out at me?itÅfs alive with
maggots.
ÅgTheyÅfre testing you!Åh Dervish growls, fingers tightening over my lips. My neckÅfs strained almost to
snapping point. ÅgIf they can drive you insane, IÅfll have nobody to protect me from Artery and Vein!Åh
The names of the demons penetrate. Fighting the terror, I stare at the faces of my parents and sister, and
spot minor mistakes?DadÅfs nose bends to the wrong side, GretÅfs hair shouldnÅft be that long, MumÅfs
eyebrows are too thick.
I stop shaking. Lower my hands. Dervish releases me, but stays close, ready to gag me if I start
screaming again.
ÅgHow do I make them go away?Åh I moan.
ÅgShow youÅfre not afraid,Åh Dervish says. ÅgLook at them without flinching.Åh
ÅgItÅfs hard.Åh
ÅgI know. For me too. But you can do it, Grubbs. You have to.Åh
Deep breaths. Exerting control. I lift my eyes and train them on the three heads dangling in front of me.
Their features twist. Mum and Gret hiss at me hatefully. I donÅft look away.
Under the strength of my gaze, the heads disintegrate, melting like the candles. The web vibrates. The air
bubbles. The molten, waxy flesh of the heads rises, twisting, forming itself into three new shapes. A
crocodile-headed dog. A murderous baby. And their master?Lord Loss.
ÅgIt begins,Åh Dervish sighs, and steps forward to confront the demons.
THE BATTLE
Dervish stops at the place where the floor gives way to webs, spreads his arms and shouts something
unintelligible. Blue flames crackle from the tips of his fingers. He brings his hands together, then touches
a thick strand of web. Blue fire runs up the thread to where it connects with another. Like lightning it
streaks from strand to strand, arcing ever closer to Lord Loss and his familiars. Lord Loss shows no sign
of fear. When the blue flame reaches him, it sizzles and hisses around him, but he only smiles, waves a
hand, and the flame sputters out.
Lord Loss stretches his arms above his head. As he does, six other arms unfold from around his body,
three on either side. No fingers, just mangled lumps of flesh at the ends. The demon master grips two
strands, one with either set of hands, and climbs towards us like a grotesque spider. Vein and Artery
follow close behind their master, Vein yapping, Artery snapping his teeth.
Studying the demons with terror. So many details IÅfd forgotten. The tiny mouths in ArteryÅfs palms, the fact
that he doesnÅft have a tongue in any mouth, the writhing cockroaches on his head, the fierceness of the
flames burning in his empty eye sockets. VeinÅfs tiny cruel eyes, her long leathery snout, bits of flesh
caught between her teeth, the sleekness of her canine coat, female hands instead of paws. And Lord
Loss?red skin stained with blood which oozes from hundreds and thousands of ragged cracks, his
strange dark red eyes, and the hole where his heart should be, filled with writhing, hissing snakes.
The demons come to the end of the web and hesitate, swaying on a thin strand like evil vultures on a
vine. Dervish stands beneath them, cool as a chunk of ice, hands pressed together.
ÅgHello, Dervish,Åh Lord Loss says, his voice even sadder than I remembered. ÅgIt is good to see you again,
my doomed friend.Åh
ÅgGood to see you also,Åh Dervish replies tightly. Vein snaps at him, trying to frighten him, but Dervish only
sniffs with disinterest.
ÅgAnd my younger friend, poor Grubitsch Grady.Åh Lord Loss sighs, subjecting me to his eerie red gaze.
ÅgYour sorrow is still strong. So sweet.Åh His face wrinkles and blood seeps from cracks on both cheeks. He
licks the blood from his flesh with an inhumanly long tongue, then extends a hand. ÅgCome to me,
Grubitsch. Let me feed on your pain. Misery should be celebrated, not endured. In my world you will be
an emperor of suffering. Be mine, Grubitsch. Turn your back on this insane challenge and accept your
true destiny.Åh
I find myself sneering, and without meaning to, I draw myself up straight, glare openly at the demon lord,
and snap, ÅgStick it up your crack, you warped son of a mutant bitch!Åh
Lord LossÅfs face drops. Vein and Artery gibber furiously. Dervish laughs.
ÅgYou will pay for that insult,Åh Lord Loss snarls, eyes glowing, blood flowing.
ÅgOnly if we lose,Åh Dervish chuckles. ÅgYou canÅft touch him if we win.Åh
ÅgOh, but Dervish, you wonÅft win,Åh Lord Loss says, his voice reverberating with gloominess. ÅgI wish there
was hope?you remind me of Bartholomew Garadex, a most rare human. But you must face facts?this
night you die. The boy is weak, unfit for such a challenge.Åh
ÅgDonÅft listen to him,Åh Dervish warns me. ÅgHeÅfs trying to make you think youÅfre lost before you start.Åh
ÅgI know what heÅfs up to?it wonÅft work,Åh I grunt. But inside IÅfm not so cocky. ThereÅfs such sadness in the
demonÅfs voice and eyes. Is it true? Are we destined to lose?
ÅgOne final chance, Grubitsch,Åh Lord Loss whispers. ÅgGive yourself to me now and you can avoid the terror
and agony. Your death will not be quick, but it will be pleasurable. Your mother, at the end, wished she
had accepted my offer. She begged to serve me, but it was too late.Åh
ÅgI donÅft believe you,Åh I say evenly. ÅgMum would never have begged a piece of scum like you for
anything?even her life!Åh
Lord LossÅfs eyes narrow. ÅgA second insult,Åh he murmurs. ÅgYou shall not make a third.Åh He faces Dervish.
ÅgI tire of these vain human posterings. I came to play chess. Are you ready?Åh
ÅgYes.Åh
ÅgWho will take to the boards with me?Åh
ÅgI will.Åh
Lord Loss lays a hand over his mouth to cover a small smile. ÅgThe boy is to fight Vein and Artery? I am
astonished. I assumed Grubitsch was a chess maverick who would pit his wits against mine. But to throw
him into combat with my savage familiarsÅcÅh
ÅgGrubbs will be fine,Åh Dervish says, but his voice doesnÅft ring with confidence.
ÅgSo be it,Åh Lord Loss sighs. ÅgI would have rather fought a noble contest, but if you are to play into our
hands, there is nothing for it but to sweep to a swift victory and make a quick end of you.Åh
Lord Loss lowers himself off of the web and hovers just in front of Dervish, the jagged strips of flesh at the
ends of his legs never touching the ground. Six of his arms fold around his ribs, leaving the upper pair
free. Blood drips from his body and sizzles when it hits the stones of the floor.
Dervish steps aside and points to the chess boards. Lord Loss drifts towards them, lips splitting into the
closest he can get to a genuinely warm smile. He circles the tables, running his fingers over some of the
chess pieces. On the web, Vein and Artery snap and spit, scratching impatiently at the silky strands,
hungry for battle and blood.
ÅgI hope you prove more worthy an opponent than your brother, Dervish,Åh Lord Loss says spitefully. ÅgHe
was on the back foot from the fourth move. It was quite embarrassing, the ease with which he
succumbed. I think, deep down, he secretly wished to lose?just as Grubitsch does.Åh
ÅgShut up!Åh I yell, taking an angry step towards him, hands clenched into fists.
ÅgEasy, Grubbs,Åh Dervish mutters. ÅgHeÅfs trying to goad you. Ignore his rubbish. Clear your mind. Focus on
the fight.Åh
ÅgWise advice,Åh Lord Loss nods. ÅgBut Grubitsch is unable to heed it. He is full of fire and fury?like his
mother. Her failures proved to be your fatherÅfs downfall. He might have fared better had he not been so
worried about her, just as Dervish is worried about you. What will you say to your uncle when you fail him,
Grubitsch? How will you apologise for?Åh
ÅgIf this continues,Åh Dervish interrupts softly, Ågthe gameÅfs off.Åh Lord Loss stares at him archly. ÅgIÅfm not
bluffing. Let it be a fair contest, me against you, Grubbs against your slaves, or thereÅfll be no contest at
all.Åh
ÅgYou would sacrifice the wretched Billy Spleen so cheaply?Åh Lord Loss smirks.
ÅgIf I have to,Åh Dervish says, and his face is stone.
Lord Loss studies my uncle in troubled silence, then shrugs and sits on the side of the chess boards
behind the black pieces. ÅgVery well. We shall dispense with the pleasantries. Take your place, Dervish
Grady, and face your finish.Åh
Dervish walks across to me. Grips my shoulders. Stares hard into my eyes. ÅgYou know what you have to
do,Åh he says. ÅgFight hard and dirty?to the death.Åh
ÅgPiece of cake,Åh I grin weakly. ÅgGood luck.Åh
ÅgWe make our own luck tonight,Åh he says in reply. He releases me and marches to the chess boards. Sits,
takes a breath, then without any formalities reaches forward, grips a pawn on the middle board and
moves it forward.
Immediately, Vein and Artery leap from the web and zone in on me, screeching, snarling, the stench of
death thick in the air about them.
