the goats upon his hands, and
upon the smooth of his neck :
and she gave the savory meat and the bread, which she had
prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.
   And he came unto his father, and said, My father : and he said,
Here am I ; who art thou, my son ?
And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau thy firstborn ; I have done
according as thou badest me : arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my
venison, that thy soul may bless me.
And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it so
quickly, my son ? And he said, Because the Lord thy God brought it
to me.
And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may feel
thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.
       Genesis       
And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father ; and he felt him, and
said, The voice is Jacob’s voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.
And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his
brother Esau’s hands : so he blessed him.
And he said, Art thou my very son Esau ? And he said, I am.
And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son’s venison,
that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him, and he
did eat : and he brought him wine, and he drank.
And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me,
my son.
And he came near, and kissed him : and he smelled the smell of his
raiment, and blessed him, and said,
See, the smell of my son
is as the smell of a field which the Lord hath blessed :
therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven,
and the fatness of the earth,
and plenty of corn and wine :
let people serve thee,
and nations bow down to thee :
be lord over thy brethren,
and let thy mother’s sons bow down to thee :
cursed be every one that curseth thee,
and blessed be he that blesseth thee.
   And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing
Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac
his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.
And he also had made savory meat, and brought it unto his father,
and said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his son’s
venison, that thy soul may bless me.
And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou ? And he said, I
am thy son, thy firstborn, Esau.
And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who ? where is he
that hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all
before thou camest, and have blessed him ? yea, and he shall be
blessed.
       Genesis       
And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great
and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me, even me
also, O my father.
And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken away
thy blessing.
And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob ? for he hath supplanted
me these two times : he took away my birthright ; and, behold, now
he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not
reserved a blessing for me ?
And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him
thy lord, and all his brethren have I given to him for servants ; and
with corn and wine have I sustained him : and what shall I do now
unto thee, my son ?
And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my
father ? bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his
voice, and wept.
   And Isaac his father answered and said unto him,
Behold, thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth,
and of the dew of heaven from above ;
and by thy sword shalt thou live,
and shalt serve thy brother :
and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion,
that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.
Jacob Flees from Esau
   And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his
father blessed him : and Esau said in his heart, The days of
mourning for my father are at hand ; then will I slay my brother
Jacob.
And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah : and
she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him,
Behold, thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself,
purposing to kill thee.
       Genesis       
Now therefore, my son, obey my voice ; and arise, flee thou to
Laban my brother to Haran ;
and tarry with him a few days, until thy brother’s fury turn away ;
until thy brother’s anger turn away from thee, and he forget that
which thou hast done to him : then I will send, and fetch thee from
thence : why should I be deprived also of you both in one day ?
   And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the
daughters of Heth : if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth,
such as these which are of the daughters of the land, what good shall
my life do me ?
      
And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said
unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan.
Arise, go to Padan-aram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother’s
father ; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of Laban
thy mother’s brother.
And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply
thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people ;
and give thee the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with
thee ; that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger,
which God gave unto Abraham.
And Isaac sent away Jacob : and he went to Padan-aram unto Laban,
son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob’s and
Esau’s mother.
   When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away
to Padan-aram, to take him a wife from thence ; and that as he
blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a
wife of the daughters of Canaan ;
and that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to
Padan-aram ;
and Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his
father ;
       Genesis       
then went Esau unto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he
had Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham’s son, the sister of
Nebajoth, to be his wife.
God Appears to Jacob at Beth-el
   And Jacob went out from Beer-sheba, and went toward Haran.
And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night,
because the sun was set ; and he took of the stones of that place, and
put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep.
And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the
top of it reached to heaven : and behold the angels of God ascending
and descending on it.
And, behold, the Lord stood above it, and said, I am the Lord
God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac : the land whereon
thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed ;
and thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth ; and thou shalt spread
abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the
south : and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth
be blessed.
And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither
thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land ; for I will not
leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of.
And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the Lord is
in this place ; and I knew it not.
And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place ! this is none
other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
   And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that
he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil
upon the top of it.
And he called the name of that place Beth-el [the house of God] :
but the name of that city was called Luz at the first.
And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will
keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and
raiment to put on,
       Genesis       
so that I come again to my father’s house in peace ; then shall the
Lord be my God :
and this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God’s house :
and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto
thee.
      
Jacob Serves Laban for Rachel and Leah
Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of the
people of the east.
And he looked, and behold a well in the field, and, lo, there were
three flocks of sheep lying by it ; for out of that well they watered
the flocks : and a great stone was upon the well’s mouth.
And thither were all the flocks gathered : and they rolled the stone
from the well’s mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone
again upon the well’s mouth in his place.
   And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye ? And they
said, Of Haran are we.
And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor ? And
they said, We know him.
And he said unto them, Is he well ? And they said, He is well : and,
behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep.
And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that the cattle
should be gathered together : water ye the sheep, and go and feed
them.
And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered together,
and till they roll the stone from the well’s mouth ; then we water the
sheep.
   And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father’s
sheep : for she kept them.
And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban
his mother’s brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother’s brother,
       Genesis       
that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well’s mouth,
and watered the flock of Laban his mother’s brother.
And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.
And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father’s brother, and that he
was Rebekah’s son : and she ran and told her father.
   And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his
sister’s son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed
him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these
things.
And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And
he abode with him the space of a month.
   And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother,
shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought ? tell me, what shall
thy wages be ?
And Laban had two daughters : the name of the elder was Leah, and
the name of the younger was Rachel.
Leah was tender eyed ; but Rachel was beautiful and well-favored.
And Jacob loved Rachel ; and said, I will serve thee seven years for
Rachel thy younger daughter.
And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than that I should
give her to another man : abide with me.
And Jacob served seven years for Rachel ; and they seemed unto
him but a few days, for the love he had to her.
   And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are
fulfilled, that I may go in unto her.
And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a
feast.
And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his daughter,
and brought her to him ; and he went in unto her.
And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for a
handmaid.
And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah : and
he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me ? did not I
serve with thee for Rachel ? wherefore then hast thou beguiled me ?      
       Genesis       
And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country, to give the
younger before the firstborn.
Fulfil her week, and we will give thee this also for the service which
thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years.
And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week : and he gave him Rachel
his daughter to wife also.
And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be
her maid.
And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more
than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years.
The Children Born to Jacob
   And when the Lord saw that Leah was hated, he opened her
womb : but Rachel was barren.
And Leah conceived, and bare a son ; and she called his name
Reuben [see, a son] : for she said, Surely the Lord hath looked
upon my affliction ; now therefore my husband will love me.
And she conceived again, and bare a son ; and said, Because the
Lord hath heard that I was hated, he hath therefore given me this
son also : and she called his name Simeon [hearing].
And she conceived again, and bare a son ; and said, Now this time
will my husband be joined unto me, because I have borne him
three sons : therefore was his name called Levi [joined].
And she conceived again, and bare a son ; and she said, Now will I
praise the Lord : therefore she called his name Judah [praise] ; and
left bearing.
      
And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel
envied her sister ; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I
die.
And Jacob’s anger was kindled against Rachel ; and he said, Am I in
God’s stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb ? 
Genesis       
And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her ; and she shall
bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her.
And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife : and Jacob went in
unto her.
And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.
And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard my
voice, and hath given me a son : therefore called she his name Dan
[judging].
And Bilhah Rachel’s maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second
son.
And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my
sister, and I have prevailed : and she called his name Naphtali [my
wrestling].
   When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her
maid, and gave her Jacob to wife.
And Zilpah Leah’s maid bare Jacob a son.
And Leah said, A troop cometh : and she called his name Gad.
And Zilpah Leah’s maid bare Jacob a second son.
And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed :
and she called his name Asher [happy].
   And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found
mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah.
Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son’s
mandrakes.
And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my
husband ? and wouldest thou take away my son’s mandrakes also ?
And Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee tonight for thy
son’s mandrakes.
And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out
to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me ; for surely I
have hired thee with my son’s mandrakes. And he lay with her that
night.
And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob
the fifth son.
       Genesis       
And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given
my maiden to my husband : and she called his name Issachar [an
hire].
And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son.
And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry ; now will
my husband dwell with me, because I have borne him six sons : and
she called his name Zebulun [dwelling].
And afterward she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.
And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and
opened her womb.
And she conceived, and bare a son ; and said, God hath taken away
my reproach :
and she called his name Joseph [adding] ; and said, The Lord shall
add to me another son.
The Trickery of Laban and Jacob
   And it came to pass, when Rachel had borne Joseph, that Jacob
said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own
place, and to my country.
Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee,
and let me go : for thou knowest my service which I have done thee.
And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favor in thine
eyes, tarry : for I have learned by experience that the Lord hath
blessed me for thy sake.
And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it.
And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and
how thy cattle was with me.
For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now
increased unto a multitude ; and the Lord hath blessed thee since
my coming : and now, when shall I provide for mine own house
also ?
And he said, What shall I give thee ? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not
give me any thing : if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again
feed and keep thy flock. 
       Genesis       
I will pass through all thy flock today, removing from thence all the
speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among the
sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats : and of such
shall be my hire.
So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it
shall come for my hire before thy face : every one that is not
speckled and spotted among the goats, and brown among the
sheep, that shall be counted stolen with me.
And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy word.
And he removed that day the he goats that were ring-streaked and
spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and
every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the
sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons.
And he set three days’ journey betwixt himself and Jacob : and Jacob
fed the rest of Laban’s flocks.
   And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and
chestnut tree ; and pilled white streaks in them, and made the white
appear which was in the rods.
And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the
gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that
they should conceive when they came to drink.
And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth cattle
ring-streaked, speckled, and spotted.
And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks
toward the ring-streaked, and all the brown in the flock of Laban ;
and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto
Laban’s cattle.
And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive,
that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters,
that they might conceive among the rods.
But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in : so the feebler
were Laban’s, and the stronger Jacob’s.
And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and
maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.
       Genesis       
      
And he heard the words of Laban’s sons, saying, Jacob hath taken
away all that was our father’s ; and of that which was our father’s
hath he gotten all this glory.
And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was
not toward him as before.
And the Lord said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers,
and to thy kindred ; and I will be with thee.
And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his
flock,
and said unto them, I see your father’s countenance, that it is not
toward me as before ; but the God of my father hath been with me.
And ye know that with all my power I have served your father.
And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten
times ; but God suffered him not to hurt me.
If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages ; then all the cattle
bare speckled : and if he said thus, The ring-streaked shall be thy
hire ; then bare all the cattle ring-streaked.
Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and given them
to me.
And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, that I
lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams
which leaped upon the cattle were ring-streaked, speckled, and
grizzled.
And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob : and
I said, Here am I.
And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams which
leap upon the cattle are ring-streaked, speckled, and grizzled : for I
have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.
I am the God of Beth-el, where thou anointedst the pillar, and
where thou vowedst a vow unto me : now arise, get thee out from
this land, and return unto the land of thy kindred.
And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet any
portion or inheritance for us in our father’s house ?
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
      
      
      
      
       Genesis       
Are we not counted of him strangers ? for he hath sold us, and hath
quite devoured also our money.
For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that is
ours, and our children’s : now then, whatsoever God hath said unto
thee, do.
Jacob Flees from Laban
   Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels ;
and he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he had
gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten in Padanaram,
for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.
And Laban went to shear his sheep : and Rachel had stolen the
images that were her father’s.
And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he told
him not that he fled.
So he fled with all that he had ; and he rose up, and passed over the
river, and set his face toward the mount Gilead.
   And it was told Laban on the third day, that Jacob was fled.
And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven
days’ journey ; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead.
And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said
unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or
bad.
   Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in
the mount : and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of
Gilead.
And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast
stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as
captives taken with the sword ?
Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly, and steal away from me ;
and didst not tell me, that I might have sent thee away with mirth,
and with songs, with tabret, and with harp ?
And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters ? thou
hast now done foolishly in so doing.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
       Genesis       
It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt : but the God of your
father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that thou
speak not to Jacob either good or bad.
And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sore
longedst after thy father’s house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen my
gods ?
And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid : for I
said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy daughters from
me.
With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live : before
our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to
thee. For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them.
   And Laban went into Jacob’s tent, and into Leah’s tent, and into
the two maidservants’ tents ; but he found them not. Then went he
out of Leah’s tent, and entered into Rachel’s tent.
Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel’s
furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but
found them not.
And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I cannot
rise up before thee ; for the custom of women is upon me. And he
searched, but found not the images.
   And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban : and Jacob answered
and said to Laban, What is my trespass ? what is my sin, that thou
hast so hotly pursued after me ?
Whereas thou hast searched all my stuff, what hast thou found of
all thy household stuff ? set it here before my brethren and thy
brethren, that they may judge betwixt us both.
This twenty years have I been with thee ; thy ewes and thy she goats
have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not
eaten.
That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee ; I bare the
loss of it ; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen by day, or
stolen by night.
Thus I was ; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by
night ; and my sleep departed from mine eyes.
       Genesis       
Thus have I been twenty years in thy house : I served thee fourteen
years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle ; and thou
hast changed my wages ten times.
Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of
Isaac, had been with me, surely thou hadst sent me away now
empty. God hath seen mine affliction and the labor of my hands,
and rebuked thee yesternight.
   And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my
daughters, and these children are my children, and these cattle are
my cattle, and all that thou seest is mine : and what can I do this day
unto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have
borne ?
Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou ; and
let it be for a witness between me and thee.
And Jacob took a stone, and set it
