down to Egypt.
And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our
brother, and conceal his blood ?
91 Genesis 38
Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand
be upon him ; for he is our brother and our flesh : and his brethren
were content.
Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen ; and they drew and
lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites
for twenty pieces of silver : and they brought Joseph into Egypt.
    And Reuben returned unto the pit ; and, behold, Joseph was not
in the pit ; and he rent his clothes.
And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not ; and
I, whither shall I go ?
And they took Joseph’s coat, and killed a kid of the goats, and
dipped the coat in the blood ;
and they sent the coat of many colors, and they brought it to their
father ; and said, This have we found : know now whether it be thy
son’s coat or no.
And he knew it, and said, It is my son’s coat ; an evil beast hath
devoured him ; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.
And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins, and
mourned for his son many days.
And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him ; but
he refused to be comforted ; and he said, For I will go down into the
grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him.
And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of
Pharaoh’s, and captain of the guard.
38
Judah and Tamar
And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his
brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name was
Hirah.
And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose
name was Shuah ; and he took her, and went in unto her.
92 Genesis 38
And she conceived again, and bare a son ; and she called his name
Onan.
And she yet again conceived, and bare a son ; and called his name
Shelah : and he was at Chezib, when she bare him.
And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name was Tamar.
And Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the Lord ; and
the Lord slew him.
And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother’s wife, and
marry her, and raise up seed to thy brother.
And Onan knew that the seed should not be his ; and it came to
pass, when he went in unto his brother’s wife, that he spilled it on
the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother.
And the thing which he did displeased the Lord : wherefore he
slew him also.
Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter-in-law, Remain a widow at
thy father’s house, till Shelah my son be grown : for he said, Lest
peradventure he die also, as his brethren did. And Tamar went and
dwelt in her father’s house.
    And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah’s wife died ;
and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to
Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.
And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold, thy father-in-law goeth up
to Timnath to shear his sheep.
And she put her widow’s garments off from her, and covered her
with a veil, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which is
by the way to Timnath ; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she
was not given unto him to wife.
When Judah saw her, he thought her to be a harlot ; because she had
covered her face.
And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee, let
me come in unto thee ; (for he knew not that she was his daughterin-
law :) and she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest
come in unto me ?
And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock. And she said, Wilt
thou give me a pledge, till thou send it ?
93 Genesis 38
And he said, What pledge shall I give thee ? And she said, Thy
signet, and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand. And he
gave it her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him.
And she arose, and went away, and laid by her veil from her, and
put on the garments of her widowhood.
    And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite,
to receive his pledge from the woman’s hand : but he found her not.
Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is the harlot,
that was openly by the wayside ? And they said, There was no harlot
in this place.
And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her ; and also the
men of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place.
And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed : behold, I
sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.
    And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told
Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter-in-law hath played the harlot ;
and also, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said,
Bring her forth, and let her be burnt.
When she was brought forth she sent to her father-in-law, saying,
By the man, whose these are, am I with child : and she said, Discern,
I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and staff.
And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been more
righteous than I ; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And
he knew her again no more.
    And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold, twins
were in her womb.
And it came to pass, when she travailed, that the one put out his
hand : and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet
thread, saying, This came out first.
And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his
brother came out : and she said, How hast thou broken forth ? this
breach be upon thee : therefore his name was called Pharez.
And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread
upon his hand : and his name was called Zarah.
94 Genesis 39
39
Joseph and Potiphar’s Wife
And Joseph was brought down to Egypt ; and Potiphar, an officer of
Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the
hands of the Ishmaelites, which had brought him down thither.
And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man ; and
he was in the house of his master the Egyptian.
And his master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the
Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand.
And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him : and he
made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into
his hand.
And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer in
his house, and over all that he had, that the Lord blessed the
Egyptian’s house for Joseph’s sake ; and the blessing of the Lord
was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.
And he left all that he had in Joseph’s hand ; and he knew not aught
he had, save the bread which he did eat.
    And Joseph was a goodly person, and well-favored.
And it came to pass after these things, that his master’s wife cast her
eyes upon Joseph ; and she said, Lie with me.
But he refused, and said unto his master’s wife, Behold, my master
wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committed
all that he hath to my hand ;
there is none greater in this house than I ; neither hath he kept back
any thing from me but thee, because thou art his wife : how then
can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God ?
And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he
hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her.
And it came to pass about this time, that Joseph went into the house
to do his business ; and there was none of the men of the house there
within.
95 Genesis 39
And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me : and he
left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.
And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment in
her hand, and was fled forth,
that she called unto the men of her house, and spake unto them,
saying, See, he hath brought in a Hebrew unto us to mock us ; he
came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice :
and it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and
cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled, and got him out.
And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home.
And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The
Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto
me to mock me :
and it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his
garment with me, and fled out.
    And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his wife,
which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy
servant to me ; that his wrath was kindled.
And Joseph’s master took him, and put him into the prison, a place
where the king’s prisoners were bound : and he was there in the
prison.
But the Lord was with Joseph, and showed him mercy, and gave
him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison.
And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph’s hand all the
prisoners that were in the prison ; and whatsoever they did there, he
was the doer of it.
The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing that was under his
hand ; because the Lord was with him, and that which he did, the
Lord made it to prosper.
96 Genesis 40
40
Joseph Interprets the Prisoners’ Dreams
And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of the king of
Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt.
And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the chief
of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers.
And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard,
into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound.
And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he
served them : and they continued a season in ward.
And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in
one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream,
the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in
the prison.
And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked upon
them, and, behold, they were sad.
And he asked Pharaoh’s officers that were with him in the ward of
his lord’s house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly today ?
And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no
interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretations
belong to God ? tell me them, I pray you.
    And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, In
my dream, behold, a vine was before me ;
and in the vine were three branches : and it was as though it budded,
and her blossoms shot forth ; and the clusters thereof brought forth
ripe grapes :
and Pharaoh’s cup was in my hand : and I took the grapes, and
pressed them into Pharaoh’s cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh’s
hand.
And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it : The three
branches are three days :
97 Genesis 41
yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore
thee unto thy place ; and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh’s cup into his
hand, after the former manner when thou wast his butler.
But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and show
kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto
Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house :
for indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews : and
here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the
dungeon.
    When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he
said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three
white baskets on my head :
and in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of bakemeats
for Pharaoh ; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my
head.
And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation thereof :
The three baskets are three days :
yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee,
and shall hang thee on a tree ; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from
off thee.
    And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh’s birthday,
that he made a feast unto all his servants : and he lifted up the head
of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.
And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again ; and he
gave the cup into Pharaoh’s hand :
but he hanged the chief baker : as Joseph had interpreted to them.
Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.
41
Joseph Interprets Pharaoh’s Dream
And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh
dreamed : and, behold, he stood by the river.
98 Genesis 41
And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well-favored kine
and fat-fleshed ; and they fed in a meadow.
And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the river,
ill-favored and lean-fleshed ; and stood by the other kine upon the
brink of the river.
And the ill-favored and lean-fleshed kine did eat up the seven wellfavored
and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke.
And he slept and dreamed the second time : and, behold, seven ears
of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good.
And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprung
up after them.
And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. And
Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream.
And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled ; and
he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise
men thereof : and Pharaoh told them his dream ; but there was none
that could interpret them unto Pharaoh.
    Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember
my faults this day :
Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the
captain of the guard’s house, both me and the chief baker :
and we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he ; we dreamed each
man according to the interpretation of his dream.
And there was there with us a young man, a Hebrew, servant to the
captain of the guard ; and we told him, and he interpreted to us our
dreams ; to each man according to his dream he did interpret.
And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was ; me he
restored unto mine office, and him he hanged.
    Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him
hastily out of the dungeon : and he shaved himself, and changed his
raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh.
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is
none that can interpret it : and I have heard say of thee, that thou
canst understand a dream to interpret it.
99 Genesis 41
And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me : God shall
give Pharaoh an answer of peace.
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood upon
the bank of the river :
and, behold, there came up out of the river seven kine, fat-fleshed
and well-favored ; and they fed in a meadow :
and, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor and very
ill-favored and lean-fleshed, such as I never saw in all the land of
Egypt for badness :
and the lean and the ill-favored kine did eat up the first seven fat
kine :
and when they had eaten them up, it could not be known that they
had eaten them ; but they were still ill-favored, as at the beginning.
So I awoke.
And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one
stalk, full and good :
and, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, and blasted with the east
wind, sprung up after them :
and the thin ears devoured the seven good ears : and I told this unto
the magicians ; but there was none that could declare it to me.
    And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one : God
hath showed Pharaoh what he is about to do.
The seven good kine are seven years ; and the seven good ears are
seven years : the dream is one.
And the seven thin and ill-favored kine that came up after them are
seven years ; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind
shall be seven years of famine.
This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh : What God is
about to do he showeth unto Pharaoh.
Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the
land of Egypt :
and there shall arise after them seven years of famine ; and all the
plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt ; and the famine shall
consume the land ;
100 Genesis 41
and the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that
famine following ; for it shall be very grievous.
And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice ; it is
because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring
it to pass.
Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and
set him over the land of Egypt.
Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land, and
take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous
years.
And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and
lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in
the cities.
And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven years
of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt ; that the land perish
not through the famine.
Joseph Made Ruler over Egypt
    And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of
all his servants.
And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this
is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is ?
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath showed
thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art :
thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all
my people be ruled : only in the throne will I be greater than thou.
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land
of Egypt.
And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon
Joseph’s hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a
gold chain about his neck ;
and he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had ; and
they cried before him, Bow the knee : and he made him ruler over
all the land of Egypt.
101 Genesis 41
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee
shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.
And Pharaoh called Joseph’s name Zaphnath-paaneah ; and he gave
him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And
Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt.
    And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh
king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh,
and went throughout all the land of Egypt.
And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by
handfuls.
And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were in
the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities : the food of the
field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the same.
And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much, until
he left numbering ; for it was without number.
    And unto Joseph were born two sons, before the years of famine
came : which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare
unto him.
And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh [forgetting] :
For God, said he, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my
father’s house.
And the name of the second called he Ephraim [fruitful] : For God
hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.
    And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land of
Egypt, were ended.
And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph
had said : and the dearth was in all lands ; but in all the land of
Egypt there was bread.
And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to
Pharaoh for bread : and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go
unto Joseph ; what he saith to you, do.
And the famine was over all the face of the earth : and Joseph
opened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians ; and the
famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt.
102 Genesis 42
And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn ; because
that the famine was so sore in all lands.
42
Joseph’s Brethren Come to Egypt for Grain
Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto
his sons, Why do ye look one upon another ?
And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt : get
you down thither, and buy for us from thence ; that we may live,
and not die.
And Joseph’s ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.
But Benjamin, Joseph’s brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren ;
for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him.
And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came : for
the famine was in the land of Canaan.
    And Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was that sold
to all the people of the land : and Joseph’s brethren came, and
bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth.
And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself
strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them ; and he said unto
them, Whence come ye ? And they said, From the land of Canaan
to buy food.
And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him.
And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them,
and said unto them, Ye are spies ; to see the nakedness of the land ye
are come.
And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy
servants come.
We are all one man’s sons ; we are true men ; thy servants are no
spies.
And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land ye
are come.
103 Genesis 42
And they said, Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of one
man in the land of Canaan ; and, behold, the youngest is this day
with our father, and one is not.
And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto you, saying,
Ye are spies :
hereby ye shall be proved : By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go
forth hence, except your youngest brother come hither.
Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be
kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be any
truth in you : or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies.
And he put them all together into ward three days.
    And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and live ; for I
fear God :
if ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound in the house of
your prison : go ye, carry corn for the famine of your houses :
but bring your youngest brother unto me ; so shall your words be
verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.
And they said one to another. We are verily guilty concerning our
brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought
us, and we would not hear ; therefore is this distress come upon us.
And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying,
Do not sin against the child ; and ye would not hear ? therefore,
behold, also his blood is required.
And they knew not that Joseph understood them ; for he spake unto
them by an interpreter.
And he turned himself about from them, and wept ; and returned to
them again, and communed with them, and took from them
Simeon, and bound him before their eyes.
Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to
restore every man’s money into his sack, and to give them
provision for the way : and thus did he unto them.
    And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence.
And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the
inn, he espied his money ; for, behold, it was in his sack’s mouth.
104 Genesis 43
And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored ; and, lo, it is
even in my sack : and their heart failed them, and they were afraid,
saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us ?
    And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan,
and told him all that befell unto them ; saying,
The man, who is the lord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took
us for spies of the country.
And we said unto him, We are true men ; we are no spies :
we be twelve brethren, sons of our father ; one is not, and the
youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.
And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I
know that ye are true men ; leave one of your brethren here with me,
and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone :
and bring your youngest brother unto me : then shall I know that ye
are no spies, but that ye are true men : so will I deliver you your
brother, and ye shall traffic in the
