a piercing look. 'You didn't mention anything about those strange tracks. Do you know where they came from?" Eragon shook his head. "I didn't see them" Baldor abruptly spoke. '1 don't like this. Too much of this rings of wizardry. Who are those men? Are they Shades? Why did they want the stone, and how could they have destroyed the house except with dark powers? You may be right, Father, the stone might be all they wanted, but I think we will see them again " Silence followed his words. Something had been overlooked, though Eragon was not sure what. Then it struck him With a sinking heart, he voiced his suspicion "Roran doesn't know, does hsT'How could I have forgotten him? Horst shook his head. "He and Dempton left a little while after you. Unless they ran into some difficulty on the road, they've been in Therinsford for a couple of days now. We were going to send a message, but the weather was too cold yesterday and the day before." "Baldor and I were about to leave when you woke up," offered Abriech Horst ran a hand through his beard. "Go on, both of you. I'll help you saddle the horses." Baldor turned to Eragon "I'll break it to him gently," he promised, then followed Horst and Abriech out of the kitchen Eragon remained at the table, his eyes focused on a knot in the wood. Every excruciating detail was clear to him the twisting grain, an asymmetrical bump, three little ridges with a fleck of color. The knot was filled with endless detail; the closer he looked, the more he saw. He searched for answers in it, but if there were any, they eluded him A faint call broke through his pounding thoughts. It sounded like yelling from outside. He ignored it.Let someone else deal with it. Several minutes later he heard it again, louder than before. Angrily, he blocked it out. Why can 't they be quiet? Garrow's resting. He glanced at Elain, but she did not seem to be bothered by the noise. ERAGON fibs, roar was so strong he almost fell out of the chair. He peered around in alarm, but nothing had changed. He suddenly realized that the shouts had been inside his head. Saphira?he asked anxiously. There was a pause. Yes, stone ears. Relief seeped into him. Where are you? She sent him an image of a small clump of trees./ tried to contact you many times, but you were beyond reach. I was sick . . . but I'm better now. Why couldn 't I sense you earlier? After two nights of waiting, hunger bested me. I had to hunt. Did you catch anything? A young buck. He was wise enough to guard against the predators of land, but not those of sky. When I first caught him in my jaws, he kicked vigorously and tried to escape. I was stronger, though, and when defeat became unavoidable, he gave up and died. Does Garrow also fight the inevitable? I don 't know. He told her the particulars, then said/? 'II be a long time, if ever, before we can go home. I won 't be able to see you for at least a couple of days. You might as well make yourself comfortable. Unhappily, she said/ will do as you say. But do not take too long. They parted reluctantly. He looked out a window and was surprised to see that the sun had set. Feeling very tired, he limped to Elain, who was wrapping meat pies with oilcloth. "I'm going back to Gertrude's house to sleep," he said. She finished with the packages and asked, "Why don't you stay with us? You'll be closer to your uncle, and Gertrude can have her bed back." "Do you have enough room?" he asked, wavering. "Of course." She wiped her hands. 'Come with me; I'll get everything ready." She escorted him upstairs to an empty room He sat on the edge of the bed. "Do you need anything else?" she asked. He shook his head. "In that case, I'll be downstairs. Call me if you need help." He listened as she descended the stairs. Then he opened the door and slipped down the hallway to Garrow' s room Gertrude gave him a small smile over her darting knitting needles. "How is he?" whispered Eragon Her voice rasped with fatigue. "He's weak, but the fever's gone down a little and some of the burns look better. We'll have to wait and see, but this could mean he'll recover." That lightened Eragon's mood, and he returned to his room. The darkness seemed unfriendly as he huddled under the blankets. Eventually he fell asleep, healing the wounds his body and soul had suffered. THEMADNESS OFLIFE It was dark when Eragpn jolted upright in bed, breathing hard. The room was chilly, goose bumps formed on his arms and shoulders. It was a few hours before dawn — the time when nothing moves and life waits for the first warm touches of sunlight. His heart pounded as a terrible premonition gripped him It felt like a shroud lay over the world, and its darkest comer was over his room He quietly got out of bed and dressed. With apprehension he hurried down the hallway. Alarm shot through him when he saw the door to Garrow's room open and people clustered inside. Garrow lay peacefully on the bed. He was dressed in clean clothes, his hair had been combed back, and his face was calm He might have been sleeping if not for the silver amulet clasped around his neck and the sprig of dried hemlock on his chest, the last gifts from the living to the dead. Katrina stood next to the bed, face pale and eyes downcast. He heard her whisper, "I had hoped to call YsmFather one day. . . ." Call him Father, he thought bitterrya right even I don 't have. He felt like a ghost, drained of all vitality. Everything was insubstantial except for Garrow's face. Tears flooded Eragon's cheeks. He stood there, shoulders shaking, but did not cry out. Mother, aunt, uncle — he had lost themalL The weight of his grief was crushing, a monstrous force that left him tottering Someone led him back to his room, uttering consolations. He fell on the bed, wrapped his arms around his head, and sobbed convulsively. He felt Saphira contact him, but he pushed her aside and let himself be swept away by sorrow. He could not accept that Garrow was gone. If he did, what was left to believe in? Only a merciless, uncaring world that snuffed lives like candles before a wind. Frustrated and terrified, he turned his tear-dampened face toward the heavens and shouted, "What god would do this? Show yourself" He heard people running to his room, but no answer came fromabove. "He didn't deserve this!" Comforting hands touched him, and he was aware of Elain sitting next to him She held him as he cried, and eventually, exhausted, he slipped unwillingly into sleep. ARIDER'SBLADE /\nguisb :h enveloped Eragon as he awoke. Though he kept his eyes closed, they could not stop a fresh flow of tears. He searched for some idea or hope to help him keep his sanity./ can 't live with this, he moaned. Then don 't. Saphira' s words reverberated in his head. How? Garrow is gone forever! And in time, I must meet the same fate. Love, family, accomplishments — they are all torn away, leaving nothing. What is the worth of anything we do? The worth is in the act. Your worth halts when you surrender the will to change and experience life. But options are before you; choose one and dedicate yourself to it. The deeds will give you new hope and purpose. But what can I do? The only true guide is your heart. Nothing less than its supreme desire can help you. She left him to ponder her statements. Eragon examined his emotions. It surprised him that, more than grief, he found a searing anger. What do you want me to do . . . pursue the strangers? Yes. Her frank answer confused him He took a deep, trembling breath Why? Remember what you said in the Spine? How you remindedme of my duty as dragon, and I returned with you despite the urging of my instinct? So, too, must you control yourself . I thought long and deep the past few days, and I realized what it means to be dragon and Rider: It is our destiny to attempt the impossible, to accomplish great deeds regardless of fear. It is our responsibility to the future. I don 't care what you say; those aren 't reasons to leave /cried Eragon Then here are others. My tracks have been seen, and people are alert to my presence. Eventually I will be exposed. Besides, there is nothing here for you. No farm, no family, and — Roran 's not deadlte said vehemently. But if you stay, you '11 have to explain what really happened. He has a right to know how and why his father died. What might he do once he knows of me? Saphira's arguments whirled around in Eragon's head, but he shrank from the idea of forsaking Palancar Valley, it was his home. Yet the thought of enacting vengeance on the strangers was fiercely comforting.^/?? I strong enough for this? You have me. Doubt besieged him It would be such a wild, desperate thing to do. Contempt for his indecision rose, and a harsh smile danced on his lips. Saphira was right. Nothing mattered anymore except the act itself The doing is the thing. And what would give him more satisfaction than hunting down the strangers? A terrible energy and strength began to grow in him It grabbed his emotions and forged them into a solid bar of anger with one word stamped on it: revenge. His head pounded as he said with conviction,/ will do it. He severed the contact with Saphira and rolled out of bed, his body tense like a coiled spring. It was still early morning; he had only slept a few howsNothing is more dangerous than an enemy with nothing to lose, he thought. Which is what I have become. Yesterday he had had difficulty walking upright, but now he moved confidently, held in place by his iron will The pain his body sent him was defied and ignored. As he crept out of the house, he heard the murmur of two people talking. Curious, he stopped and listened. Elain was saying in her gentle voice, ". . . place to stay. We have room" Horst answered inaudibly in his bass rumble. 'Yes, the poor boy," replied Elain This time Eragon could hear Horst's response. "Maybe . . ." There was a long pause. "I've been thinking about what Eragon said, and I'm not sure he told us everything." "What do you mean?" asked Elain There was concern in her voice. "When we started for their farm, the road was scraped smooth by the board he dragged Garrow on Then we reached a place where the snow was all trampled and churned up. His footprints and signs of the board stopped there, but we also saw the same giant tracks from the farm And what about his legs? I can't believe he didn't notice losing that much skin I didn't want to push him for answers earlier, but now I think I wilL" "Maybe what he saw scared him so much that he doesn't want to talk about it," suggested Elain 'You saw how distraught he was." 'That still doesn't explain how he managed to get Garrow nearly all the way here without leaving any tracks." Saphira was right, thought Eragon/? & time to leave. Too many questions from too many people. Sooner or later they'll find the answers. He continued through the house, tensing whenever the floor creaked. The streets were clear; few people were up at this time of day. He stopped for a minute and forced himself to focus./ don 't need a horse. Saphira will be my steed, but she needs a saddle. She can hunt for both of us, so I don't have to worry about food— though I should get some anyway. Whatever else I need I can find buried in our house. He went to Gedric's tanning vats on the outskirts of CarvahalL The vile smell made him cringe, but he kept moving, heading for a shack set into the side of a hill where the cured hides were stored. He cut down three large ox hides from the rows of skins hanging from the ceiling. The thievery made him feel guilty, but he reasoned/? i not really stealing. I'll pay Gedric back someday, along with Horst. He rolled up the thick leather and took it to a stand of trees away from the village. He wedged the hides between the branches of a tree, then returned to Carvahall Nowforfood.Hs went to the tavern, intending to get it there, but then smiled tightly and reversed direction If he was going to steal, it night as well be from Sloan He sneaked up to the butcher's house. The front door was barred whenever Sloan was not there, but the side door was secured with only a thin chain, which he broke easily. The rooms inside were dark. He fumbled blindly until his hands came upon hard piles of meat wrapped in cloth. He stuffed as many of them as he could under his shirt, then hurried back to the street and furtively closed the door. A woman shouted his name nearby. He clasped the bottom of his shirt to keep the meat from falling out and ducked behind a comer. He shivered as Horst walked between two houses not ten feet away. Eragon ran as soon as Horst was out of sight. His legs burned as he pounded down an alley and back to the trees. He slipped between the tree trunks, then turned to see if he was being pursued. No one was there. Relieved, he let out his breath and reached into the tree for the leather. It was gone. "Going somewhere?" Eragon whirled around. Brom scowled angrily at him, an ugly wound on the side of his head. A short sword hung at his belt in a brown sheath. The hides were in his hands. Eragon's eyes narrowed in irritation How had the old man managed to sneak up on him? Everything had been so quiet, he would have sworn that no one was around. "Give them back," he snapped. "Why? So you can run offbefore Garrow is even buried?" The accusation was sharp. "It's none of your business!" he barked, temper flashing "Why did you follow me?" T didn't," grunted Brom "I've been waiting for you here. Now where are you going?" "Nowhere." Eragon lunged for the skins and grabbed them from Brom' s hands. Brom did nothing to stop him T hope you have enough meat to feed your dragon." Eragon froze. "What are you talking about?" Brom crossed his arms. "Don't fool with me. I know where that mark on your hand, the gedwey ignasia, iheshining palm, comes from you have touched a dragon hatchling. I know why you came to me with those questions, and I know that once more the Riders live." Eragon dropped the leather and meat./? s finally happened . . . I have to get away! I can 't run faster than him with my injured legs, but if . . . Saphira! he called. For a few agonizing seconds she did not answer, but then, Fas. We 've been discovered! I need you /He sent her a picture of where he was, and she took off immediately. Now he just had to stall Brom "How did you find out?" he asked in a hollow voice. Brom stared into the distance and moved his lips soundlessly as if he were talking to someone else. Then he said, 'There were clues and hints everywhere; I had only to pay attention Anyone with the right knowledge could have done the same. Tell me, how is your dragon?" "She," said Eragon, "is fine. We weren't at the farm when the strangers came." "Ah, your legs. You were flying?" How did Brom figure that out? What if the strangers coerced him into doing this? Maybe they want him to discover where I'm going so they can ambush us. And where is Saphira?He reached out with his mind and found her circling far overhead. Come! No, I will watch for a time. Why! Because of the slaughter at Doru Areaba. What? Brom leaned against a tree with a slight smile. T have talked with her, and she has agreed to stay above us until we settle our differences. As you can see, you realty don't have any choice but to answer my questions. Now tell me, where are you going?" Bewildered, Eragon put a hand to his temple.//ow could Brom speak to Saphira? The back of his head throbbed and ideas whirled through his mind, but he kept reaching the same conclusion: he had to tell the old man something He said, T was going to find a safe place to stay while I hear." "And after that?" The question could not be ignored. The throbbing in his head grew worse. It was impossible to think; nothing seemed clear anymore. All he wanted to do was tell someone about the events of the past few months. It tore at him that his secret had caused Garrow's death. He gave up and said tremulously, T was going to hunt down the strangers and kill them" "A mighty task for one so young," Brom said in a normal tone, as if Eragon had proposed the most obvious and suitable thing to do. "Certainly a worthy endeavor and one you are fit to carry out, yet it strikes me that help would not be unwelcome." He reached behind a bush and pulled out a large pack. His tone became gruff "Anyway, I'mnot going to stay behind while some stripling gets to run around with a dragon" Is he really offering help, or is it a ?rap?Eragon was afraid of what his mysterious enemies could do.But Brom convinced Saphira to trust him, and they've talked through the mind touch.If she isn't worried . . . He decided to put his suspicions aside for the present. T don't need help," said Eragon, then grudgingly added, "but you can come." 'Then we had best be going," said Brom His face blanked for a moment. "I think you'll find that your dragon will listen to you again" Saphira?asked Eragon Yes. He resisted the urge to question her. Will you meet us at the farm? Yes. So you reached an agreement? I guess so. She broke contact and soared away. He glanced at Carvahall and saw people running from house to house. "I think they're looking for me." Brom raised an eyebrow. "Probably. Shall we go?" Eragon hesitated. "I'd like to leave a message for Roran It doesn't seemright to run off without telling him why." "It's been taken care ofj" assured Brom "I left a letter for him with Gertrude, explaining a few things. I also cautioned him to be on guard for certain dangers. Is that satisfactory?" Eragon nodded. He wrapped the leather around the meat and started off They were carefrjl to stay out of sight until they reached the road, then quickened their pace, eager to distance themselves from Carvahall. Eragon plowed ahead determinedly his legs burning. The mindless rhythm of walking freed his mind to think. Once we get home, I won 't travel any farther with Brom until I get some answers, he told himself firmby. / hope that he can tell me more about the Riders and whom I'm fighting. As the wreckage of the farm came into view, Brom's eyebrows beetled with anger. Eragon was dismayed to see how swiftly nature was reclaiming the farm Snow and dirt were already piled inside the house, concealing the violence of the strangers' attack. All that remained of the bam was a rapidly eroding rectangle of soot. Brom's head snapped up as the sound of Saphira's wings drifted over the trees. She dived past them from behind, almost brushing their heads. They staggered as a wall of air buffeted them Saphira's scales glittered as she wheeled over the farm and landed gracefully. Brom stepped forward with an expression both solemn and joyous. His eyes were shining, and a tear shone on his cheek before it disappeared into his beard. He stood there for a long while, breathing heavily as he watched Saphira, and she him Eragon heard him muttering and edged closer to listen. "So ... it starts again But how and where will it end? My sight is veiled; I cannot tell if this be tragedy or iarce, for the elements of both are here. . . . However it may be, my station is unchanged, and I . . ." Whatever else he night have said faded away as Saphira proudly approached them Eragon passed Brom, pretended he had heard nothing, and greeted her. There was something different between them now, as if they knew each other even more intimately, yet were still strangers. He rubbed her neck, and his palm tingled as their minds touched. A strong curiosity came from her. I've seen no humans except you and Garrow, and he was badly injured,^ said. You 've viewed people through my eyes. It's not the same.Shs came closer and turned her long head so that she could inspect Brom with one large blue eye.X>« really are queer creatures, she said critically, and continued to stare at him Brom held still as she sniffed the air, and then he extended a hand to her. Saphira slowly bowed her head and allowed him to touch her on the brow. With a snort, she jerked back and retreated behind Eragon Her tail flicked over the ground. What is it?hs asked. She did not answer. Brom turned to him and asked in an undertone, ' What' s her name?' ' "Saphira." A peculiar expression crossed Brom's face. He ground the butt of his staff into the earth with such force his knuckles turned white. "Of all the names you gave me, it was the only one she liked. I think it fits," Eragon added quickly. 'Tit it does," said Brom There was something in his voice Eragon could not identify. Was it loss, wonder, fear, envy? He was not sure; it could have been none of them or all Bromraised his voice and said, 'Greetings, Saphira. I amhonored to meet you" He twisted his hand in a strange gesture and bowed. Hike him,said Saphira quietly. Of course you do; everyone enjoys flattery. Eragon touched her on the shoulder and went to the ruined house. Saphira trailed behind with Brom The old man looked vibrant and alive. Eragon climbed into the house and crawled under a door into what was left of his room He barely recognized it under the piles of shattered wood. Guided by memory, he searched where the inside wall had been and found his empty pack. Part of the frame was broken, but the damage could be easily repaired. He kept rummaging and eventually uncovered the end of his bow, which was still in its buckskin tube. Though the leather was scratched and scuffed, he was pleased to see that the oiled wood was unharmed.i<7wa//>> some luck. He strung the bow and pulled on the sinew experimentally It bent smoothly without any snaps or creaks. Satisfied, he hunted for his quiver, which he found buried nearby. Many of the arrows were broken He unstrung the bow and handed it and the quiver to Brom, who said, 'It takes a strong arm to pull that." Eragon took the compliment silently. He picked through the rest of the house for other useful items and dumped the collection next to Brom It was a meager pile. 'What now?" asked Brom His eyes were sharp and inquisitive. Eragon looked away. 'We find a place to hide." "Do you have somewhere in mind?" 'Yes." He wrapped all the supplies, except for his bow, into a tight bundle and tied it shut. Hefting it onto his back, he said, 'This way," and headed into the forest.Saphira, follow us in the air. Your footprints are too easily found and tracked. Very well. She took off behind them Their destination was nearby, but Eragon took a circuitous route in an effort to baffle any pursuers. It was well over an hour before he finally stopped in a well- concealed bramble. The irregular clearing in the center was just large enough for a fire, two people, and a dragon Red squirrels scampered into the trees, chattering in protest at their intrusion Brom extricated himself from a vine and looked around with interest. 'Does anyone else know of this?" he asked. "No. I found it when we first moved here. It took me a week to dig into the center, and another week to clear out all the deadwood." Saphira landed beside them and folded her wings, careful to avoid the thorns. She curled up, snapping twigs with her hard scales, and rested her head on the ground. Her unreadable eyes followed them closely. Brom leaned against his staff and fixed his gaze on her. His scrutiny made Eragon nervous. Eragon watched them until hunger forced him to action He built a fire, filled a pot with snow, and then set it over the flames to melt. When the water was hot, he tore off chunks of meat and dropped them into the pot with a lump of sak.Not much of a meal, he thought grimlyta it '11 do. I'll probably be eating this for some time to come, so I might as well get used to it. The stew simmered quietly, spreading a rich aroma through the clearing. The tip of Saphira's tongue snaked out and tasted the air. When the meat was tender, Brom came over and Eragon served the food. They ate silently, avoiding each other's eyes. Afterward, Brom pulled out his pipe and lit it leisurely. 'Why do you want to travel with me?" asked Eragon. A cloud of smoke left Brom's lips and spiraled up through the trees until it disappeared. "I have a vested interest in keeping you alive," he said. 'What do you mean?" demanded Eragon. 'To put it bluntly I'm a storyteller and I happen to think that you will make a fine story. You're the first Rider to exist outside of the king's control for over a hundred years. What will happen? Will you perish as a martyr? Will you join the Varden? Or will you kill King Gabatorix? All fascinating questions. And I will be there to see every bit of it, no matter what I have to do." A knot formed in Eragon's stomach He could not see himself doing any of those things, least of all becoming a martyr./ want my vengeance, but for the rest . . . I have no ambition. 'That may be, but tell me, how can you talk with Saphira?" Bromtook his time putting more tobacco in his pipe. Once it was relit and firmly in his mouth, he said, "Very well, if it's answers you want, it's answers you'll get, but they may not be to your liking." He got up, brought his pack over to the fire, and pulled out a long object wrapped in cloth It was about five feet long and, from the way he handled it, rather heavy. He peeled away the cloth, strip by strip, like a mummy being unswathed. Eragon gazed, transfixed, as a sword was revealed. The gold pommel was teardrop shaped with the sides cut away to reveal a ruby the size of a small egg The hilt was wrapped in silver wire, burnished until it gleamed like starlight. The sheath was wine red and smooth as glass, adorned solely by a strange black symbol etched into it. Next to the sword was a leather belt with a heavy buckle. The last strip fell away, and Brom passed the weapon to Eragon. The handle fit Eragon's hand as if it had been made for him He slowly drew the sword; it slid soundlessly from the sheath The flat blade was iridescent red and shimmered in the firelight. The keen edges curved gracefully to a sharp point. A duplicate of the black symbol was inscribed on the metaL The balance of the sword was perfect; it felt like an extension of his arm, unlike the rude farm tools he was used to. An air of power lay over it, as if an unstoppable force resided in its core. It had been created for the violent convulsions of battle, to end men's lives, yet it held a terrible beauty. 'This was once a Rider's blade," said Brom gravely. "When a Rider finished his training, the elves would present him with a sword. Their methods of forging have always remained secret. However, their swords are eternally sharp and will never stain The custom was to have the blade's color match that of the Rider's dragon, but I think we can make an exception in this case. This sword is named Zar'roc. I don't know what it means, probably something personal to the Rider who owned it." He watched Eragon swing the sword. 'Where did you get it?" asked Eragon. He reluctantly slipped the blade back into the sheath and attempted to hand the sword back, but Brom made no move to take it. 'It doesn't matter," said Brom T will only say that it took me a series of nasty 