to a limited degree. Tentatively, he made it understand that he was a friend. The horse calmed and looked at him with liquid brown eyes. Haberth used his fingers to add up the price of the purchase. 'Two hundred crowns and no less," he said with a smile, clearly confident that no one would pay that much. Brom silently opened his pouch and counted out the money. "Wfll this do?" he asked. There was a long silence as Haberth glanced between Snowfire and the coins. A sigh, then, "He is yours, though I go against my heart." T will treat him as if he had been sired by Gildintor, the greatest steed of legend," said Brom 'Your words gladden me," answered Haberth, bowing his head slightly. He helped them saddle the horses. When they were ready to leave, he said, "Farewell, then For the sake of Snowfire, I hope that misfortune does not befall you." "Do not fear; I will guard him well," promised Brom as they departed. "Here," he said, handing Snowfire 's reins to Eragon, "go to the far side of Therinsford and wait there." "Why?" asked Eragon, but Brom had already slipped away. Annoyed, he exited Therinsford with the two horses and stationed himself beside the road. To the south he saw the hazy outline of Utgard, sitting like a giant monolith at the end of the valley. Its peak pierced the clouds and rose out of sight, towering over the lesser mountains that surrounded it. Its dark, ominous look made Eragon's scalp tingle. Brom returned shortly and gestured for Eragon to follow. They walked until Therinsford was hidden by trees. Then Brom said, 'The Ra'zac definitely passed this way. Apparently they stopped here to pick up horses, as we did. I was able to find a man who saw them. He described them with many shudders and said that they galloped out of Therinsford like demons fleeing a holy man" 'They left quite an impression" "Quite." Eragon patted the horses. "When we were in the barn, I touched the bay's mind by accident. I didn't know it was possible to do that." Brom frowned. "It's unusual for one as young as you to have the ability. Most Riders had to train for years before they were strong enough to contact anything other than their dragon" His face was thoughtful as he inspected Snowfire. Then he said, 'Take everything from your pack, put it into the saddlebags, and tie the pack on top." Eragon did so while Brom mounted Snowfire. Eragon gazed doubtfully at the bay. It was so much smaller than Saphira that for an absurd moment he wondered if it could bear his weight. With a sigh he awkwardly got into the saddle. He had only ridden horses bareback and never for any distance. Ts this going to do the same thing to my legs as riding Saphira?" he asked. "How do they feel now?" "Not too bad, but I think any hard riding will open them up again" "We'll take it easy," promised Brom He gave Eragon a few pointers, then they started off at a gentle pace. Before long the countryside began to change as cultivated fields yielded to wilder land. Brambles and tangled weeds lined the road, along with huge rosebushes that clung to their clothes. Tall rocks slanted out of the ground — gray witnesses to their presence. There was an unfriendly feel in the air, an animosity that resisted intruders. Above them, growing larger with every step, loomed Utgard, its craggy precipices deeply furrowed with snowy canyons. The black rock of the mountain absorbed light like a sponge and dimmed the surrounding area. Between Utgard and the line of mountains that formed the east side of Palancar Valley was a deep cleft. It was the only practical way out of the valley. The road led toward it. The horses' hooves clacked sharply over gravel, and the road dwindled to a skinny trail as it skirted the base of Utgard. Eragon glanced up at the peak looming over them and was startled to see a steepled tower perched upon it. The turret was crumbling and in disrepair, but it was still a stem sentinel over the valley. "What is that?" he asked, pointing. Brom did not look up, but said sadly and with bitterness, "An outpost of the Riders — one that has lasted since their founding. That was where Vrael took refuge, and where, through treachery, he was found and defeated by Galbatorix. When Vrael fell, this area was tainted. Edoc'sil, 'Unconquerable,' was the name of this bastion, for the mountain is so steep none may reach the top unless they can fly. After Vrael's death the commoners called it Utgard, but it has another name, Ristvak'baen — the 'Place of Sorrow. ' It was known as such to the last Riders before they were killed by the king." Eragon stared with awe. Here was a tangible remnant of the Riders' glory, tarnished though it was by the relentless pull of time. It struck him then just how old the Riders were. A legacy of tradition and heroism that stretched back to antiquity had fallen upon him They traveled for long hours around Utgard. It formed a solid wall to their right as they entered the breach that divided the mountain range. Eragon stood in his stirrups; he was impatient to see what lay outside of Palancar, but it was still too far away. For a while they were in a sloped pass, winding over hill and gully, following the Anora River. Then, with the sun low behind their backs, they mounted a rise and saw over the trees. Eragon gasped. On either side were mountains, but below them stretched a huge plain that extended to the distant horizon and fused into the sky. The plain was a uniform tan, like the color of dead grass. Long, wispy clouds swept by overhead, shaped by fierce winds. He understood now why Brom had insisted on horses. It would have taken them weeks or months to cover that vast distance on foot. Far above he saw Saphira circling, high enough to be mistaken for a bird. "We'll wait until tomorrow to make the descent," said Brom "It's going to take most of the day, so we should camp now." "How far across is the plain?" Eragon asked, still amazed. 'Two or three days to over a fortnight, depending on which direction we go. Aside from the nomad tribes that roam this section of the plains, it's almost as uninhabited as the Hadarac Desert to the east. So we aren't going to find many villages. However, to the south the plains are less arid and more heavily populated." They left the trail and dismounted by the Anora River. As they unsaddled the horses, Brom gestured at the bay. "You should name him " Eragon considered it as he picketed the bay. "Well, I don't have anything as noble as Snowfire, but maybe this will do." He placed his hand on the bay and said, "I name you Cadoc. It was my grandfather's name, so bear it well" Brom nodded in approval, but Eragon felt slightly foolish When Saphira landed, he asked, How do the plains look? Dull. There 's nothing but rabbits and scrub in every direction. After dinner, Brom stood and barked, "Catch!" Eragon barely bad time to raise bis arm and grab the piece of wood beibre it hit him on the head. He groaned as he saw another makeshift sword. "Not again," he complained. Brom just smiled and beckoned with one hand. Eragon reluctantly got to his feet. They whirled around in a flurry of smacking wood, and he backed away with a stinging arm The training session was shorter than the first, but it was still long enough for Eragon to amass a new collection of bruises. When they finished sparring, he threw down the stick in disgust and stalked away from the fire to nurse his injuries. T HUNDERRO AR ANDLIGHTNINGCRACKLE 1 he next morning Eragon avoided bringing to mind any of the recent events; they were too painful for him to consider. Instead, he focused his energies on figuring out how to find and kill the Ra'zac.77/ do it with my bow, he decided, imagining how the cloaked figures would look with arrows sticking out of them He had difficulty even standing up. His muscles cramped with the slightest movement, and one of his fingers was hot and swollen. When they were ready to leave, he mounted Cadoc and said acidly, "If this keeps up, you're going to batter me to pieces." "I wouldn't push you so hard if I didn't think you were strong enough" 'Tor once, I wouldn't mind being thought less of," muttered Eragon. Cadoc pranced nervously as Saphira approached. Saphira eyed the horse with something close to disgust and sak\,There's nowhere to hide on the plains, so I'm not going to bother trying to stay out of sight. I'll just fly above you from now on. She took off, and they began the steep descent. In many places the trail all but disappeared, leaving them to find their own way down. At times they had to dismount and lead the horses on foot, holding on to trees to keep from falling down the slope. The ground was scattered with loose rocks, which made the footing treacherous. The ordeal left them hot and irritable, despite the cold. They stopped to rest when they reached the bottom near midday. The Anora River veered to their left and flowed northward. A biting wind scoured the land, whipping them unmercifully. The soil was parched, and dirt flew into their eyes. It unnerved Eragon how flat everything was; the plains were unbroken by hummocks or mounds. He had lived his entire life surrounded by mountains and hills. Without themhe felt exposed and vulnerable, like a mouse under an eagle's keen eye. The trail split in three once it reached the plains. The first branch turned north, toward Ceunon, one of the greatest northern cities; the second one led straight across the plains; and the last went south They examined all three for traces of the Ra'zac and eventually found their tracks, heading directly into the grasslands. "It seems they've gone to Yazuac," said Brom with a perplexed air. "Where's that?" "Due east and four days away, if all goes well It's a small village situated by the Ninor River." He gestured at the Anora, which streamed away from them to the north 'Our onfy supply of water is here. We'll have to replenish our waterskins before attempting to cross the plains. There isn't another pool or stream between here and Yazuac." The excitement of the hunt began to rise within Eragon In a few days, maybe less than a week, he would use his arrows to avenge Garrow's deattiAnd then . . . He refused to think about what night happen afterward. They filled the waterskins, watered the horses, and drank as much as they could from the river. Saphira joined them and took several gulps of water. Fortified, they turned eastward and started across the plains. Eragon decided that it would be the wind that drove him crazy first. Everything that made him miserable — his chapped lips, parched tongue, and burning eyes — stemmed from it. The ceaseless gusting followed them throughout the day. Evening only strengthened the wind, instead of subduing it. Since there was no shelter, they were forced to camp in the open Eragon found some scrub brush a short tough plant that thrived on harsh conditions, and pulled it up. He made a careful pile and tried to light it, but the woody stems only smoked and gave off a pungent smell Frustrated, he tossed the tinderbox to Brom "I can't make it burn, especially with this blasted wind. See if you can get it going: otherwise dinner will be cold." Brom knelt by the brush and looked at it critically He rearranged a couple of branches, then struck the tinderbox, sending a cascade of sparks onto the plants. There was smoke, but nothing else. Brom scowled and tried again, but his luck was no better than Eragon's. "Brisingr!" he swore angrily, striking the flint again Flames suddenly appeared, and he stepped back with a pleased expression 'There we go. It must have been smoldering inside." They sparred with mock swords while the food cooked. Fatigue made it hard on both of them, so they kept the session short. After they had eaten, they lay next to Saphira and slept, grateful for her shelter. The same cold wind greeted them in the morning, sweeping over the dreadful flatness. Eragon's lips had cracked during the night; every time he smiled or talked, beads of blood covered them Licking them only made it worse. It was the same for Brom They let the horses drink sparingly from their supply of water before mounting them The day was a monotonous trek of endless plodding. On the third day, Eragon woke well rested. That, coupled with the fact that the wind had stopped, put him in a cheery humor. His high spirits were dampened, however, when he saw the sky ahead of them was dark with thunderheads. Brom looked at the clouds and grimaced. "Normally I wouldn't go into a storm like that, but we're in for a battering no matter what we do, so we might as well get some distance covered." It was still calm when they reached the storm front. As they entered its shadow, Eragon looked up. The thundercloud had an exotic structure, forming a natural cathedral with a massive arched roof With some imagination he could see pillars, windows, soaring tiers, and snarling gargoyles. It was a wild beauty. As Eragon lowered his gaze, a giant ripple raced toward them through the grass, flattening it. It took him a second to realize that the wave was a tremendous blast of wind. Brom saw it too, and they hunched their shoulders, preparing for the storm The gale was almost upon them when Eragon had a horrible thought and twisted in his saddle, yelling, both with his voice and mind, ' 'Saphira! Land! ' ' Brom's face grew pale. Overhead, they saw her dive toward the ground.Sfe 's not going to make it! Saphira angled back the way they had come, to gain time. As they watched, the tempest's wrath struck them like a hammer blow. Eragon gasped for breath and clenched the saddle as a frenzied howling filled his ears. Cadoc swayed and dug his hooves into the ground, mane snapping in the air. The wind tore at their clothes with invisible fingers while the air darkened with billowing clouds of dust. Eragon squinted, searching for Saphira. He saw her land heavily and then crouch clenching the ground with her talons. The wind reached her just as she started to fold her wings. With an angry yank, it unfurled them and dragged her into the air. For a moment she hung there, suspended by the storm's force. Then it slammed her down on her back. With a savage wrench Eragon yanked Cadoc around and galloped back up the trail, goading the horse with both heels and nind.Saphira! he shouted. Try to stay on the ground. I'm coming! He felt a grim acknowledgment from her. As they neared Saphira, Cadoc balked, so Eragon leapt down and ran toward her. His bow banged against his head. A strong gust pushed him off balance and he flew forward, landing on his chest. He skidded, then got back up with a snarl, ignoring the deep scrapes in his skin. Saphira was only three yards away, but he could get no closer because of her flailing wings. She struggled to fold them against the overpowering gale. He rushed at her right wing, intending to hold it down, but the wind caught her and she somersaulted over him The spines on her back missed his head by inches. Saphira clawed at the ground, trying to stay down Her wings began to lift again, but before they could flip her, Eragon threw himself at the left one. The wing crumpled in at the joints and Saphira tucked it firmly against her body. Eragon vaulted over her back and tumbled onto the other wing. Without warning it was blown upward, sending him sliding to ground. He broke his fell with a roll, then jumped up and grabbed the wing again. Saphira started to fold it, and he pushed with all of his strength The wind battled with them for a second, but with one last surge they overcame it. Eragon leaned against Saphira, panting^4re you all right? He could feel her trembling. She took a moment to answer./ . . . / think so. She sounded shskenNothing 's broken — I couldn 't do anything; the wind wouldn 't let me go. I was helpless. With a shudder, she fell silent. He looked at her, concerned.Z3o« 't worry, you 're safe now. He spotted Cadoc a ways off standing with his back to the wind. With his mind, Eragon instructed the horse to return to Brom He then got onto Saphira. She crept up the road, fighting the gale while he clung to her back and kept his head down When they reached Brom, he shouted over the storm, "Is she hurt?" Eragon shook his head and dismounted. Cadoc trotted over to him, nickering. As he stroked the horse's long cheek, Brom pointed at a dark curtain of rain sweeping toward them in rippling gray sheets. "What else?" cried Eragon, pulling his clothes tighter. He winced as the torrent reached them The stinging rain was cold as ice; before long they were drenched and shivering. Lightning lanced through the sky, flickering in and out of existence. Mile- high blue bolts streaked across the horizon, followed by peals of thunder that shook the ground below. It was beautiful, but dangerously so. Here and there, grass fires were ignited by strikes, only to be extinguished by the rain The wild elements were slow to abate, but as the day passed, they wandered elsewhere. Once again the sky was revealed, and the setting sun glowed with brilliance. As beams of light tinted the clouds with blazing colors, everything gained a sharp contrast: brightly lit on one side, deeply shadowed on the other. Objects had a unique sense of mass; grass stalks seemed sturdy as marble pillars. Ordinary things took on an unearthly beauty, Eragon felt as if he were sitting inside a painting. The rejuvenated earth smelled fresh clearing their minds and raising their spirits. Saphira stretched, craning her neck, and roared happily. The horses skittered away from her, but Eragon and Brom smiled at her exuberance. Before the light feded, they stopped for the night in a shallow depression Too exhausted to spar, they went straight to sleep. R EVELAHON ATYAZUAC /\ltbough they had managed to partially refill the waterskins during the storm, they drank the last of their water that morning. "I hope we're going in the right direction," said Eragon, crunching up the empty water bag, "because we'll be in trouble if we don't reach Yazuac today." Brom did not seem disturbed. "I've traveled this way before. Yazuac will be in sight before dusk." Eragon laughed doubtfully. "Perhaps you see something I don't. How can you know that when everything looks exactly the same for leagues around?" "Because I am guided not by the land, but by the stars and sua They will not lead us astray. Come ! Let us be off It is foolish to conjure up woe where none exists. Yazuac will be there." His words proved true. Saphira spotted the village first, but it was not until later in the day that the rest of them saw it as a dark bump on the horizon. Yazuac was still very far away; it was only visible because of the plain's uniform flatness. As they rode closer, a dark winding line appeared on either side of the town and disappeared in the distance. 'The Ninor River," said Brom, pointing at it. Eragon pulled Cadoc to a stop. "Saphira will be seen if she stays with us much longer. Should she hide while we go into Yazuac?" Brom scratched his chin and looked at the town. "See that bend in the river? Have her wait there. It's far enough from Yazuac so no one should find her, but close enough that she won't be left behind. We'll go through the town, get what we need, and then meet her." / don 't like it, said Saphira when Eragon had explained the plan. This is irritating, having to hide all the time like a criminal. You know what would happen if we were revealed. She grumbled but gave in and flew away low to the ground. They kept a swift pace in anticipation of the food and drink they would soon enjoy As they approached the small houses, they could see smoke from a dozen chimneys, but there was no one in the streets. An abnormal silence enveloped the village. By unspoken consent they stopped before the first house. Eragon abruptly said, 'There aren't any dogs barking." "No." "Doesn't mean anything, though" "...No." Eragon paused. "Someone should have seen us by now." 'Yes." 'Then why hasn't anyone come out?" Brom squinted at the sun. 'Could be afraid." "Could be," said Eragon. He was quiet for a moment. "And if it's a trap? The Ra'zac night be waiting for us." "We need provisions and water." 'There's the Ninor." "Still need provisions." 'True." Eragon looked around. "So we go in?" Brom flicked his reins. 'Yes, but not like fools. This is the main entrance to Yazuac. If there's an ambush it'll be along here. No one will expect us to arrive from a different direction." "Around to the side, then?" asked Eragon Brom nodded and pulled out his sword, resting the bare blade across his saddle. Eragon strung his bow and nocked an arrow. They trotted quietly around the town and entered it cautiously. The streets were empty, except for a small fox that darted away as they came near. The houses were dark and foreboding, with shattered windows. Many of the doors swung on broken hinges. The horses rolled their eyes nervously. Eragon's palm tingled, but he resisted the urge to scratch it. As they rode into the center of town, he gripped his bow tighter, blanching, 'Xjods above," he whispered. A mountain of bodies rose above them, the corpses stiff and grimacing. Their clothes were soaked in blood, and the churned ground was stained with it. Slaughtered men lay over the women they had tried to protect, mothers still clasped their children, and lovers who had tried to shield each other rested in death's cold embrace. Black arrows stuck out of them all Neither young nor old had been spared. But worst of all was the barbed spear that rose out of the peak of the pile, impaling the white body of a baby. Tears blurred Eragon's vision and he tried to look away, but the dead faces held his attention He stared at their open eyes and wondered how life could have left them so easily. What does our existence mean when it can end like this? A wave of hopelessness overwhelmed him A crow dipped out of the sky, like a black shadow, and perched on the spear. It cocked its head and greedily scrutinized the infant's corpse. "Oh no you don't," snarled Eragon as he pulled back the bowstring and released it with a twang. With a puff of feathers, the crow fell over backward, the arrow protruding from its chest. Eragon fit another arrow to the string, but nausea rose frombis stomach and he threw up over Cadoc's side. Brom patted him on the back. When Eragon was done, Brom asked gentry, "Do you want to wait for me outside Yazuac?" "No ... I'll stay," said Eragon shakily, wiping his mouth He avoided looking at the gruesome sight before them "Who could have done . . ." He could not force out the words. Brom bowed his head. 'Those who bve the pain and suffering of others. They wear many faces and go by many disguises, but there is only one name for them evil There is no understanding it. All we can do is pity and honor the victims." He dismounted Snowfire and walked around, inspecting the trampled ground carefully. 'The Ra'zac passed this way," he said slowly, 'but this wasn't their doing. This is Urgal work; the spear is of their make. A company of them came through here, perhaps as many as a hundred. It's odd; I know of only a few instances when they have gathered in such . . ." He knelt and examined a footprint intently. With a curse he ran back to Snowfire and leapt onto him "Ride!" he hissed tightly, spurring Snowfire forward. 'There are still Urgals here!" Eragon jammed his heels into Cadoc. The horse jumped forward and raced after Snowfire. They dashed past the houses and were almost to the edge of Yazuac when Eragon's palm tingled again He saw a flicker of movement to his right, then a giant fist smashed him out of the saddle. He flew back over Cadoc and crashed into a wall, holding on to his bow only by instinct. Gasping and stunned, he staggered upright, hugging his side. An Urgal stood over him, fece set in a gross leer. The monster was tall, thick, and broader than a doorway, with gray skin and yellow piggish eyes. Muscles bulged on his arms and chest, which was covered by a too small breastplate. An iron cap rested over the pair of ram's horns curling from his temples, and a roundshield was bound to one arm His powerful hand held a short, wicked sword. Behind him, Eragon saw Brom rein in Snowfire and start back, only to be stopped by the appearance of a second Urgal, this one with an ax. "Run, you fool!" Brom cried to Eragon, cleaving at his enemy. The Urgal in front of Eragon roared and swung his sword mightily. Eragon jerked back with a startled yelp as the weapon whistled past his cheek. He spun around and fled toward the center of Yazuac, heart pounding wildly. The Urgal pursued him, heavy boots thudding. Eragon sent a desperate cry for help to Saphira, then forced himself to go even fester. The Urgal rapidly gained ground despite Eragon's efforts; large fengs separated in a soundless bellow. With the Urgal almost upon him, Eragon strung an arrow, spun to a stop, took aim, and released. The Urgal snapped up his arm and caught the quivering bolt on his shield. The monster collided with Eragon before he could shoot again, and they fell to the ground in a confused tangle. Eragon sprang to his feet and rushed back to Brom, who was trading fierce blows with his opponent from Snowfire 's back. Where are the rest of the Urgals? wondered Eragon franticalty.^Mg these two the only ones in Yazuac? There was a loud smack, and Snowfire reared, whinnying. Brom doubled over in his saddle, blood streaming down his arm The Urgal beside him howled in triumph and raised his ax for the death blow. A deafening scream tore out of Eragon as he charged the Urgal, headfirst. The Urgal paused in astonishment, then feced him contemptuously, swinging his ax. Eragon ducked under the two-handed blow and clawed the Urgal's side, leaving bloody furrows. The Urgal's face twisted with rage. He slashed again, but missed as Eragon dived to the side and scrambled down an alley. Eragon concentrated on leading the Urgals away from Brom. He slipped into a narrow passageway between two houses, saw it was a dead end, and slid to a stop. He tried to back out, but the Urgals had already blocked the entrance. They advanced, cursing him in their gravelly voices. Eragon swung his head from side to side, searching for a way out, but there was none. As he feced the Urgals, images flashed in his mind: dead villagers piled around the spear and an innocent baby who would never grow to adulthood. At the thought of their fete, a burning, fiery power gathered from every part of his body. It was more than a desire for justice. It was his entire being rebelling against the feet of death — that he would cease to exist. The power grew stronger and stronger until he felt ready to burst from the contained force. He stood tall and straight, all fear gone. He raised his bow smoothly The Urgals laughed and lifted their shields. Eragon sighted down the shaft, as he had done hundreds of times, and aligned the arrowhead with his target. The energy inside him burned at an unbearable leveL He had to release it, or it would consume him A word suddenly leapt unbidden to his lips. He shot, yelling, "Brisingr!" The arrow hissed through the air, glowing with a crackling blue light. It struck the lead Urgal on the forehead, and the air resounded with an explosion A blue shock wave blasted out of the monster's head, killing the other Urgal instantly. It reached Eragon before he had time to react, and it passed through him without harm, dissipating against the houses. Eragon stood panting, then looked at his icy palm The gedwey ignasia was glowing like white-hot metal, yet even as he watched, it faded back to normal. He clenched his fist, then a wave of exhaustion washed over him He felt strange and feeble, as if he had not eaten for days. His knees buckled, and he sagged against a wall. ADMONISHMENTS Wnce a modicum of strength returned to him, Eragon staggered out 