Scathach ignored it. I want you to remember that everything you know-or think you know-about myth and legend is not necessarily false, nor is it entirely true. At the heart of every legend there is a grain of truth. I suspect that much of your knowledge comes from movies and TV. Xena and Dracula have a lot to answer for. All minotaurs are not evil, the Gorgon Medusa did not turn every man to stone, not all vampires are blood drinkers, the Were clans are a proud and ancient race. Josh attempted a laugh; he was still shaken by the revelation that Scathach was a vampire. You’ll be telling us next that ghosts exist. Scathach’s expression remained serious. Josh, you have entered the Shadowrealm, the world of ghosts. I want you both to trust your instincts from now on: forget what you know-or think you know-about the creatures and races you will encounter. Follow your hearts. Trust no one. Except each other, she added. We can trust you and Nicholas, though, right? Sophie said. The bell rang again, flat and piercing in the distance. Trust no one, Scathach repeated, and the twins realized that she was not answering the question. She turned toward the door. I think that’s the dinner bell. Can we eat the food? Josh asked. Depends, Scatty said. Depends on what? he asked in alarm. Depends on what it is, of course. I don’t eat the meat myself. Why not? Sophie said, wondering if there was some particular ancient creature they should avoid. I’m a vegetarian, Scatty answered. CHAPTER SIXTEEN Perenelle Flamel sat in a corner of the tiny windowless room and drew her knees up to her chest, then wrapped her arms around her shins. She rested her chin on her knees. She could hear voices-angry, bitter voices. Perry concentrated on the sound. She allowed her aura to expand a little as she murmured a small spell she had learned from an Inuit shaman. The shaman used it to listen to the fish moving under the arctic ice sheets and the bears crunching across the distant ice fields. The simple spell worked by shutting down all other senses and concentrating exclusively on hearing. Perry watched as the color faded from her surroundings and darkness closed in until she went blind. She gradually lost her sense of smell and felt the pins-and-needles tingle in her fingertips and toes as her sense of touch dulled, then faded completely. She knew that if there were anything in her mouth, she would no longer be able to taste it. Only her hearing remained, but it was enhanced and supersensitive. She heard beetles crawling in the walls behind her, heard the scritch-scratch as a mouse gnawed through wood somewhere above her, knew that a colony of termites was munching their way through distant floorboards. She also heard two voices, high and thin, as if they were being picked up on a badly tuned radio, and coming from a great distance. Perry tilted her head, homing in on the sound. She heard wind whistling, the flap of clothing, the high crying of birds. She could tell that the voices she was hearing were coming from the roof of the building. They strengthened, warbled and bubbled, and then abruptly clarified: they belonged to Dee and the Morrigan, and Perry could clearly hear the fear in the gray man’s voice and the rage in the Crow Goddess’s shrill cries. She must pay for this! She must! She is an Elder. Untouchable by the likes of you and me, Dee said, trying unsuccessfully to calm the Morrigan. No one is untouchable. She has interfered where she was not wanted. My creatures had almost overwhelmed the car when her Ghost Wind swept them away. Flamel, the warrior Scathach and the two humani have now disappeared, Dee’s voice echoed, and Perry frowned, concentrating hard, trying to follow every word. She was delighted to discover that Nicholas had sought the assistance of Scathach: she was a formidable ally. It’s as if they have vanished off the face of the earth. They have vanished off the face of the earth, the Morrigan snapped. He’s taken them into Hekate’s Shadowrealm. Unconsciously, Perry nodded. Of course! Where else would Nicholas have gone? The entrance to Hekate’s Shadowrealm in Mill Valley was closest to San Francisco, and while the Elder was no friend to the Flamels, she was not allied to Dee and his Dark Elders either. We must follow them, the Morrigan stated flatly. Impossible, Dee said reasonably. I have neither the skills nor the powers to penetrate Hekate’s realm. There was a pause, and then he added, Nor do you. She is a First Generation Elder, you are of the Next Generation. But she is not the only Elder on the West Coast. The Morrigan’s voice was a snap of triumph. What are you suggesting? Fear had touched Dee’s voice with a hint of his original English accent. I know where Bastet sleeps.           Perenelle Flamel sat back against the cold stone and allowed her senses to return. Feeling came first-pins and needles racing through her fingers and toes-then her sense of smell, and finally sight. Blinking, waiting for the tiny colored spots of light to fade, Perry tried to make sense of what she had just discovered. The implications were terrible. The Morrigan was prepared to awaken Bastet and attack Hekate’s Shadowrealm to retrieve the pages of the Codex. Perry shuddered. She had never met Bastet-she didn’t know anyone who had in the last three centuries and had lived to tell the tale-but she knew her by reputation. One of the most powerful members of the Elder Race, Bastet had been worshipped in Egypt since the earliest ages of man. She had the body of a beautiful young woman with the head of a cat, and Perry had absolutely no idea of the magical forces she controlled. Events were moving surprisingly swiftly. Something big was happening. Many years before, when Nicholas and Perry had first discovered the secret of immortality, they had realized that their extra-long lives allowed them to view the world from a different perspective. They no longer planned events days or weeks in advance; often they would make plans decades into the future. Perry had come to understand that the Elders, whose lives were infinitely longer, could make plans that encompassed centuries. And that often meant that events moved with an extraordinarily deliberate slowness. But now the Morrigan was abroad. The last time she had walked in the World of Men, she had been spotted in the bitter, mud-filled trenches of the Somme; before that she had prowled the bloodstained battlefields of the American Civil War. The Crow Goddess was drawn to death; it hung around her like a foul stench. She was also one of the Elders who believed that humans had been placed on this earth to serve them. Nicholas and the twins were safe in Hekate’s Shadowrealm, but for how long? Bastet was a First Generation Elder. Her powers had to be at least equal to Hekate’s...and if the Cat Goddess and the Crow Goddess, combined with Dee’s alchemical magic, attacked Hekate, would her defenses hold? Perry didn’t know. And what of Nicholas, Scathach and the twins? Perenelle felt tears prickle the back of her eyes, but blinked them away. Nicholas would be six hundred and seventy-seven years old on the twenty-eighth of September, in three months’ time. He was well able to take care of himself, though his mastery of practical spells was very limited, and he could be remarkably forgetful at times. Only the summer before, he had forgotten how to speak English and had reverted to his native archaic French. It had taken her nearly a month to coach him back to speaking English. Before that he had gone through a period when he had signed his checks in Greek and Aramaic characters. Perenelle’s lips curled in a smile. He spoke sixteen languages well and another ten badly. He could read and write in twenty-two of them-though there wasn’t much chance to practice his Linear B, cuneiform or hieroglyphics these days. She wondered what he was doing right now. He would be looking for her, of course, but he would also need to protect the twins and the pages that Josh had torn from the Codex. She needed to get a message to him, she had to let him know that she was fine and to warn him about the danger they were in. One of the earliest gifts the young woman known as Perenelle Delamere had discovered when she was growing up was her ability to talk to the shades of the dead. It wasn’t until her seventh birthday that she realized that not everyone could see the flickering black-and-white images she encountered daily. On the eve of her seventh birthday, her beloved grandmother, Mamom, died. Perenelle watched as the withered body was gently lifted from the bed where she had spent the last ten years of her life and laid in the coffin. The small girl had followed the funeral procession through the tiny town of Quimper and out into the graveyard that overlooked the sea. She had watched the little rough-hewn box as it was lowered into the earth, and then she had returned to her home. And Mamom was sitting up in the bed, eyes bright with their usual mischief. The only difference was that Perenelle could no longer see her grandmother clearly. There was no color to her-everything was in black-and-white-and her image kept flickering in and out of focus. In that instant Perenelle realized she could see ghosts. And when Mamom turned in her direction and smiled, she knew that they could see her. Sitting in the small windowless cell, Perenelle stretched her legs out in front of her and pressed both hands to the cold concrete floor. Over the years she had developed a series of defenses to protect herself from the unwanted intrusions of the dead. If there was one thing she had learned early on about the dead-particularly the old dead-it was that they were extraordinarily rude, popping up at the most inopportune and inappropriate moments. The dead particularly liked bathrooms-it was a perfect location for them: quiet and still, with lots of reflective surfaces. Perenelle recalled a time she’d been brushing her teeth when the ghost of an American president had appeared in the mirror in front of her. She’d almost swallowed the toothbrush. Perenelle had quickly come to understand that ghosts could not see certain colors-blues and greens and some tints of yellow-and so she deliberately encouraged those colors into her aura, carefully creating a shield that rendered her invisible in the particular Shadowrealm where the shades of the dead gathered. Opening her eyes wide, Perenelle concentrated on her own aura. Her natural aura was a pale ice white, which acted like a beacon for the dead, drawing them to her. But over it, like layers of paint, she had created auras of bright blue, emerald green, and primrose yellow. Now, one by one, Perenelle shut off the colors-yellow first, then green, then the final blue defense. The ghosts came then, drawn to her ice white aura like moths to a flame. They flickered into existence around her: men, women and children, wearing clothes from across the decades. Perenelle moved her green eyes over the glistening images, not entirely sure what she was looking for. She dismissed women and girls in the flowing skirts of the eighteenth century and men in the boots and gun belts of the nineteenth and concentrated on those ghosts wearing the clothing of the twentieth century. She finally picked out an elderly man wearing a modern-looking security guard’s uniform. Gently easing the other shades aside, she called the figure closer. Perenelle understood that people-particularly in modern, sophisticated societies-were frightened of ghosts. But she knew that there was no reason to fear them: a ghost was nothing more than the remnants of a person’s aura that remained attached to a particular place. Can I help you, ma’am? The shade’s voice was strong, with a touch of the East Coast in it: Boston perhaps. Standing tall and straight, like an old soldier, the ghost looked about sixty, though he could have been older. Could you tell me where I am? Perenelle asked. You’re in the basement of the corporate headquarters of Enoch Enterprises, just to the west of Telegraph Hill. We got Coit Tower almost directly overhead, he added proudly. You seem very sure. Should be. I worked here for thirty years. Wasn’t always Enoch Enterprises, of course. But places like this always need security. Never one break-in on my watch, he informed her. That’s an achievement to be proud of, Mr.... It surely is. The ghost paused, his image flickering wildly. Miller. That was my name. Jefferson Miller. Been a while since anyone asked for it. How can I help you? he asked. Well, you’ve been of great assistance already. At least I know I am still in San Francisco. The ghost continued to look at her. Did you expect not to be? I think I may have slept earlier; I was afraid I might have been moved out of the city, she explained. Are you being held against your will, ma’am? I am. Jefferson Miller drifted closer. Well, that’s just not right. There was a long pause while his image flickered. But I’m afraid I can’t help you-I’m a ghost, you see. Perenelle nodded. I know that. She smiled. I just wasn’t sure if you knew. She knew that one of the reasons ghosts often remained attached to certain places was because they simply did not know that they were dead. The old security guard wheezed a laugh. I’ve tried to leave...but something keeps pulling me back. Maybe I just spent too much time here when I was alive. Perenelle nodded again. I can help you leave, if you would like to. I can do that for you. Jefferson Miller nodded. I think I would like that very much. My wife, Ethel, she passed on ten years before me. Sometimes I think I hear her voice calling me across the Shadowrealms. Perenelle nodded. She is trying to call you home. I can help you cut the ties that bind you to this place. Is there anything I can do for you in return? Perenelle smiled. Well, there is one thing.... Perhaps you could get a message to my husband. CHAPTER SEVENTEEN Sophie and Josh followed Scathach through Hekate’s house. There were reminders everywhere that they were inside a tree: everything-floors, walls and ceilings-was wooden, and in places, little buds and shoots of green leaves dappled the walls, as if the wood was still growing. With her hand resting lightly on her brother’s shoulder, Sophie looked around. The house seemed to be composed of a series of circular rooms that flowed, almost imperceptibly, into one another. She caught glimpses as she and Josh passed them; almost all the rooms were bare, and most of them had tall red-barked trees growing through the center of the floor. One room, off to the side and much larger than the rest, had a large oval-shaped pool in the middle of the floor. Startlingly large white-flowered water lilies clustered in the center of the pool, giving it the appearance of a huge unblinking eye. Another room was filled entirely with wooden wind chimes dangling from the branches of its red tree. Each set of chimes was a different size and shape, some etched and carved with symbols, others unadorned. They hung still and quiet until Sophie looked into the room, and then they slowly, melodically began to rattle together. It sounded like distant whispers. Sophie squeezed Josh’s shoulder, trying to attract his attention, but he was staring straight ahead, forehead creased in concentration. Where is everyone? Josh finally asked. There is only Hekate, Scathach said. Those of the Elder Race are solitary creatures. Are there many still alive? Sophie wondered aloud. Scathach paused by an open door and turned to look back over her shoulder. More than you might think. The majority of them want nothing to do with the humani and rarely venture from their individual Shadowrealms. Others, like the Dark Elders, want a return to the old ways, and work through agents like Dee to make it happen. And what about you? Josh demanded. Do you want to return to these old ways? I never thought they were that great, she said, then added, especially for the humani.           They found Nicholas Flamel sitting outside on a raised wooden deck set into a branch of the tree. Growing horizontally from the tree trunk, the branch was at least ten feet across, and sloped down to plunge into the earth close to a crescent-shaped pool. Walking across the branch, Sophie glanced down and was startled to see that beneath the green weeds that curled and twisted in the pool, tiny almost-human faces peered upward, mouths and eyes open wide. On the deck, five high-backed chairs were arranged around a circular table, which was set with beautifully hand-carved wooden bowls and elegant wooden cups and goblets. Warm, rough-cut bread and thick slices of hard cheese were arranged on platters, and there were two huge bowls of fruit-apples, oranges and enormous cherries-in the center of the table. The Alchemyst was carefully slicing the skin off an emerald green apple with a triangular sliver of black stone that looked like an arrowhead. Sophie noticed that he had arranged the green skin into shapes that resembled letters. Scatty slid into the seat beside the Alchemyst. Is Hekate not joining us? she asked, picking up a piece of cut skin and chewing on it. I believe she is changing for dinner, Flamel said, slicing off another curl of skin to replace the piece Scatty was chewing. He looked over at Sophie and Josh. Sit, please. Our hostess will join us shortly and then we’ll eat. You must be exhausted, he added. I am tired, Sophie admitted. She’d become aware of the exhaustion a little earlier, and now she could barely keep her eyes open. She was also a little frightened, realizing that the tiredness was caused by the magic of the place feeding off her energy. When can we go home? Josh demanded, unwilling to admit that he too was worn out. Even his bones ached. He felt as if he was coming down with a cold. Nicholas Flamel cut a neat slice from the apple and popped it in his mouth. I’m afraid you will not be able to return for a little while. Why not? Josh snapped. Flamel sighed. He put down the stone arrowhead and the apple and placed his hands flat on the table. Right now, neither Dee nor the Morrigan knows who you are. It’s only because of that, that you and your family are safe. Our family? Sophie asked. The sudden thought that her mother or father might be in danger made her feel queasy. Josh reacted with the same shock, his lips drawing into a thin white line. Dee will be thorough, Flamel said. He is protecting a millennia-old secret, and he will not stop with killing you. Everyone you know or have come in contact with will have an accident. I’d hazard a guess that even Bernice’s Coffee Cup will burn to the ground...simply because you once worked in it. Bernice might even perish in the fire. But she has nothing to do with anything, Sophie protested, horrified. Yes, but Dee doesn’t know that. Nor does he care. He has worked with the Dark Elders for a long time, and now he has come to regard humans as they do: as little more than beasts. But we won’t tell anyone what we’ve seen..., Josh began, and no one would believe us anyway.... His sentence trailed away. And if we don’t tell anyone, then no one will ever know, Sophie said. We’ll never speak of this again. Dee will never find us. But even as the words were leaving her mouth, she was beginning to realize that it was hopeless. She and Josh were as trapped by their knowledge of the Codex’s existence as Nicholas and Perry had been. He would find you, Flamel said reasonably. He glanced at the Warrior Maid. How long do you think it would it take for Dee or one of the Morrigan’s spies to find them? Not long, she said, munching on the apple skin. A couple of hours maybe. The rats or birds would track you, then Dee would hunt you down. Once you have been touched by magic, you are forever changed. Flamel moved his right hand in front of him, leaving the faintest hint of pale green smoke dangling in the air. You leave a trail. He huffed a breath at the green smoke and it curled away and disappeared. Are you saying we smell? Josh demanded. Flamel nodded. You smell of wild magic. You caught a whiff of it earlier today when Hekate touched you both. What did you smell then? Oranges, Josh said. Vanilla ice cream, Sophie replied. And earlier still, when Dee and I fought: what did you smell then? Mint and rotten eggs, Josh said immediately. Every magician has his or her own distinctive odor; rather like a magical fingerprint. You must learn to heed your senses. Humans use but a tiny percentage of theirs. They barely look, they rarely listen, they never smell, and they think that they can only experience feelings through their skin. But they talk, oh, do they talk. That makes up for the lack of use of their other senses. When you return to your own world, you will be able to recognize people who have some taint of magical energy. He cut out a neat cube of apple and popped it into his mouth. You may notice a peculiar scent, you might even taste it or see it as a shimmer around their bodies. How long will the feeling last? Sophie asked, curious. She reached out and took a cherry. It was the size of a small tomato. Will it fade? Flamel shook his head. It will never fade. On the contrary, it will get stronger. You have to realize that nothing will ever be the same for either of you from this day forth. Josh bit into an apple with a satisfying crunch. Juice ran onto his chin. You make that sound like a bad thing, he said with a grin, wiping his mouth with his sleeve. Flamel was about to respond, but glanced up and suddenly came to his feet. Scathach also rose smoothly, silently. Sophie immediately stood, but Josh remained sitting until Sophie caught his shoulder and pulled him up. Then she turned to look at the Goddess with Three Faces. But this wasn’t Hekate. The woman she had seen earlier had been tall and elegant, middle-aged maybe, her hair cut in a tight white helmet close to her head, her black skin smooth and unwrinkled. This woman was older, much, much older. The resemblance to Hekate was there, and Sophie guessed that this was her mother or grandmother. Although she was still tall, she stooped forward, picking her way around the branch, leaning into an ornately carved black stick that was at least as tall as Sophie. Her face was a mass of fine wrinkles, her eyes deeply sunken in her head, glittering with a peculiar yellow cast. She was completely bald, and Sophie could see where her skull was tattooed in an intricate curling pattern. Although she was wearing a dress similar to the one Hekate had worn earlier, the metallic-looking fabric ran black and red with her every movement. Sophie blinked, squeezed her eyes shut and then blinked again. She could see the merest hint of an aura around the woman, almost as if she were exuding a fine white mist. When she moved, she left tendrils of this mist behind her. Without acknowledging anyone’s presence, the old woman settled into the seat directly facing Nicholas Flamel. Only when she was seated did Flamel and Scathach sit. Sophie and Josh sat down also, glancing from Nicholas to the old woman, wondering who she was and what was going on. The woman raised a wooden goblet from the table, but didn’t drink. There was movement in the trunk of the tree behind her, and four tall, muscular young men appeared, carrying trays piled high with food, which they set down in the center of the table before backing away silently. The men looked so alike that they had to be related, but it was their faces that drew the twins’ attention: there was something wrong with the planes and angles of their skulls. Foreheads sloped down to a ridge over their eyes, their noses were short and splayed, their cheekbones pronounced, and their chins receded sharply. The hint of yellow teeth was visible behind thin lips. The men were bare-chested and barefoot, wearing only leather kilts, onto which rectangular plates of metal had been sewn. And their chests, legs and heads were covered with coarse red hair. Sophie suddenly realized that she was staring, and deliberately turned away. The men looked like some breed of primitive hominid, but she knew the differences between Neanderthal and Cro-Magnon, and her father had plaster skulls of Australopithecus, Peking man and the great apes in his study. These men were none of those. And then she noticed that their eyes were blue: bright blue, and incredibly intelligent-looking. They’re Torc Allta, she said, and then froze in surprise when everyone turned to look at her. She hadn’t realized she had spoken aloud. Josh, who’d been staring suspiciously at what might have been a chunk of fish he’d forked out of a big bowl of stew, glanced at the backs of the four young men. I knew that, he said casually. Sophie kicked him under the table. You did not, she muttered. You were too busy checking out the food. I’m hungry, he said, then leaned across to his twin. It was the red hair and piggy noses that gave it away, he murmured. I thought you’d realized that. It would be a mistake to let them hear you say that, Nicholas Flamel interrupted quietly. It would also be a mistake to judge by appearances or to comment on what you see. In this time, in this place, different standards, different criteria apply. Here words can kill-literally. Or get you killed, Scathach added. She had piled her plate high with an assortment of vegetables, only some of which were familiar to the twins. She nodded in the direction of the tree. But you are right: they are Torc Allta in their humani form. Probably the finest warriors of any time, she said. They will accompany you when you leave here, the old woman said suddenly, her voice surprisingly strong coming from such a frail-looking body. Flamel bowed. We will be honored by their presence. Don’t be, the old woman snapped. They’ll not accompany you solely for your protection: they’re to ensure that you really do leave my realm. She spread her long-fingered hands on the table, and Sophie noticed that her fingernails were each painted a different color. Strangely, the pattern was identical to the one she’d noticed on Hekate’s nails earlier. You cannot stay here, the woman announced abruptly. You must go. The twins glanced at each other; why was she being so rude? Scathach opened her mouth to speak, but Flamel reached over and squeezed her arm. That was always our intention, he said smoothly. The late-afternoon sunlight slanting through the trees dappled his face, turning his pale eyes into mirrors. When Dee attacked my shop and snatched the Codex, I realized that I had nowhere else to go. You should have gone south, the old woman said, her dress almost completely black now, the red threads looking like veins. You would have been more welcome there. I want you to leave. When I began to suspect that the prophecy was beginning to come about, I knew I had to come to you, Flamel continued, ignoring her. The twins, who were following the exchange closely, noticed how his eyes had flickered briefly in their direction. The old woman turned her head and looked at the twins with her butter-colored eyes. Her wizened face cracked in a humorless smile that showed her tiny yellow teeth. I have thought about this; I am convinced that the prophecy does not refer to humani-and especially not humani children, she added with a hiss. The contempt in the woman’s voice made Sophie speak out. I wish you wouldn’t talk about us as if we weren’t here, she said. Besides, Josh said, your daughter was going to help us. Why don’t we wait and see what she has to say. The elderly woman blinked at him, and her almost-invisible eyebrows raised in a silent question. My daughter? Sophie saw Scathach’s eyes widen in surprise or warning, but Josh pressed on. Yes, the woman we met this afternoon. The younger woman-your daughter? Or maybe she’s your granddaughter? She was going to help us. I have neither a daughter nor a granddaughter! The old woman’s dress flared black and red in long sheets of color. Her lips drew back from her teeth and she snarled some incomprehensible words. Her hands curled into claws, and the air was suddenly filled with the citrus scent of lime. Dozens of tiny spinning balls of green light gathered in the palms of her hand.