of the alley, skirting the dead monsters. He did not get far before Cadoc trotted to his side. "Good, you weren't hurt," mumbled Eragon He noticed, without particularly caring, that his hands were shaking violently and his movements were jerky. He felt detached, as if everything he saw were happening to someone else. Eragon found Snowfire, nostrils flared and ears flat against his head, prancing by the comer of a house, ready to bolt. Brom was still slumped motionless in the saddle. Eragon reached out with his mind and soothed the horse. Once Snowfire relaxed, Eragon went to Brom There was a long, blood- soaked cut on the old man's right arm The wound bled profusely, but it was neither deep nor wide. Still, Eragon knew it had to be bound before Brom lost too much blood. He stroked Snowfire for a moment, then slid Brom out of the saddle. The weight proved too much for him, and Brom dropped heavily to the ground. Eragon was shocked by his own weakness. A scream of rage filled his head. Saphira dived out of the sky and landed fiercely in front of him, keeping her wings half raised. She hissed angrily, eyes burning. Her tail lashed, and Eragon winced as it snapped overhead.^4re you hurt? she asked, rage boiling in her voice. "No," he assured her as he laid Brom on his back. She growled and exclaimed, Where are the ones who did this? I will tear them apart! He wearily pointed in the direction of the alley. "It'll do no good; they're already dead." You killed them?Saphka sounded surprised. He nodded. "Somehow." With a few terse words, he told her what had happened while he searched his saddlebags for the rags in which Zar'roc had been wrapped. Saphira said gravely, You have grown. Eragon grunted. He found a long rag and carefully rolled back Brom's sleeve. With a few deft strokes he cleaned the cut and bandaged it tightly/ wish we were still in Palancar Valley , he said to Saphira. There, at least, I knew what plants were good for healing. Here, I don 't have any idea what will help him. He retrieved Brom's sword from the ground, wiped it, then returned it to the sheath on Brom's belt. We should feave.said Saphira. There may be more Urgals lurking about. Can you carry Brom? Your saddle will hold him in place, and you can protect him. Yes, but I'm not leaving you alone. Fine, fly next to me, but let's get out of here. He tied the saddle onto Saphira, then put his arms around Brom and tried to lift him, but again his diminished strength failed himSaphira — help. She snaked her head past him and caught the back of Brom's robe between her teeth. Arching her neck, she lifted the old man off the ground, like a cat would a kitten, and deposited him onto her back. Then Eragon slipped Brom's legs through the saddle's straps and tightened them He looked up when the old man moaned and shifted. Brom blinked bleariry, putting a hand to his head. He gazed down at Eragon with concern "Did Saphira get here in time?" Eragon shook his head. "I'll explain it later. Your arm is injured. I bandaged it as best I could, but you need a safe place to rest." 'Yes," said Brom, gingerly touching his arm 'Do you know where my sword . . . Ah, I see you found it." Eragon finished tightening the straps. "Saphira' s going to take you and follow me by air." "Are you sure you want me to ride her?" asked Brom "I can ride Snowfire." "Not with that arm This way, even if you faint, you won't fall off" Brom nodded. "I'm honored." He wrapped his good arm around Saphira's neck, and she took off in a flurry, springing high into the sky. Eragon backed away, buffeted by the eddies from her wings, and returned to the horses. He tied Snowfire behind Cadoc, then left Yazuac, returning to the trail and following it southward. It led through a rocky area, veered left, and continued along the bank of the Ninor River. Ferns, mosses, and small bushes dotted the side of the path It was refreshingly cool under the trees, but Eragon did not let the soothing air lull him into a sense of security. He stopped briefly to fill the waterskins and let the horses drink. Glancing down, he saw the Ra'zac's spoor. At least we 're going in the right direction. Saphira circled overhead, keeping a keen eye on him It disturbed him that they had seen only two Urgals. The villagers had been killed and Yazuac ransacked by a large horde, yet where was 'tl Perhaps the ones we encountered were a rear guard or a trap left for anyone who was following the main force. His thoughts turned to how he had killed the Urgals. An idea, a revelation, slowly wormed its way through his mind. He, Eragon — farm boy of Palancar Valley — had used magic.Mjgzc/ It was the only word for what had happened. It seemed impossible, but he could not deny what he had seen.Somehow I've become a sorcerer or wizard! But he did not know how to use this new power again or what its limits and dangers might bellow can I have this ability? Mis it common among the Riders? And if Brom knew of it, why didn 't he tell me? He shook his head in wonder and bewilderment. He conversed with Saphira to check on Brom's condition and to share his thoughts. She was just as puzzled as he was about the imge.Saphira, can you find us a place to stay? lean 't see very far down here. While she searched, he continued along the Ninor. The summons reached him just as the light was fading. Come. Saphira sent him an image of a secluded clearing in the trees by the river. Eragon turned the horses in the new direction and nudged them into a trot. With Saphira's help it was easy to find, but it was so well hidden that he doubted anyone else would notice it. A small, smokeless fire was already burning when he entered the clearing. Brom sat next to it, tending his arm, which he held at an awkward angle. Saphira was crouched beside him, her body tense. She looked intently at Eragon and asked^Lreyou sure you oren 't hurt? Not on the outside . . . but I'm not sure about the rest of me. I should have been there sooner. Don 'tfeel bad. We all made mistakes today. Mine was not staying closer to yow.Her gratitude for that remark washed over him He looked at Brom "How are you?" The old man glanced at his arm 'It's a large scratch and hurts terribly, but it should heal quickly enough I need a fresh bandage; this one didn't last as long as I'd hoped." They boiled water to wash Brom's wound. Then Brom tied a fresh rag to his arm and said, "I must eat, and you look hungry as well. Let's have dinner first, then talk." When their bellies were fill and warm, Brom lit his pipe. "Now, I think it's time for you to tell me what transpired while I was unconscious. I am most curious." His lace reflected the flickering firelight, and his bushy eyebrows stuck out fiercely. Eragon nervously clasped his hands and told the story without embellishment. Brom remained silent throughout it, his lace inscrutable. When Eragon finished, Brom looked down at the ground. For a long time the only sound was the snapping fire. Brom finally stirred. "Have you used this power before?" "No. Do you know anything about it?" "A little." Brom's lace was thoughtful. 'It seems I owe you a debt for saving my life. I hope I can return the favor someday. You should be proud; few escape unscathed from slaying their first UrgaL But the manner in which you did it was very dangerous. You could have destroyed yourself and the whole town" "It wasn't as if I had a choice," said Eragon defensively. 'The Urgals were almost upon me. If I had waited, they would have chopped me into pieces!" Brom stamped his teeth vigorously on the pipe stem 'You didn't have any idea what you were doing." 'Then tell me," challenged Eragon 'I've been searching for answers to this mystery but I can't make sense of it. What happened? How could I have possibly used magic? No one has ever instructed me in it or taught me spells." Brom's eyes flashed. 'This isn't something you should be taught — much less use!" 'Well, lhave used it, and I may need it to fight again But I won't be able to if you don't help me. What's wrong? Is there some secret I'm not supposed to learn until I'm old and wise? Or maybe you don't know anything about magic!" "Boy!" roared Brom 'You demand answers with an insolence rarely seen If you knew what you asked for, you would not be so quick to inquire. Do not try me." He paused, then relaxed into a kinder countenance. 'The knowledge you ask for is more complex than you understand." Eragon rose hotly in protest. T feel as though I've been thrust into a world with strange rules that no one will explain" T understand," said Brom He fiddled with a piece of grass. "It's late and we should sleep, but I will tell you a few things now, to stop your badgering. This magic — for it is magic — has rules like the rest of the world. If you break the rules, the penalty is death, without exception Your deeds are limited by your strength the words you know, and your imagination" "What do you mean by words?" asked Eragon. "More questions!" cried Brom "For a moment I had hoped you were empty of them But you are quite right in asking. When you shot the Urgals, didn't you say something?" "Yes,brisingr. " The fire flared, and a shiver ran through Eragon Something about the word made him feel incredibly alive. T thought so.Brisingr is from an ancient language that all living things used to speak. However, it was forgotten over time and went unspoken for eons in Akgaesia, until the elves brought it back over the sea. They taught it to the other races, who used it for making and doing powerful things. The language has a name for everything, if you can find it." "But what does that have to do with magic?" interrupted Eragon 'Everything! It is the basis for all power. The language describes the true nature of things, not the superficial aspects that everyone sees. For example, fire is cs&sdbrisingr . Not only is thato name for fire, it isthe name for fire. If you are strong enough you can usebrisingr to direct fire to do whatever you wilL And that is what happened today." Eragon thought about it for a moment. "Why was the fire blue? How come it did exactly what I wanted, if all I said wasfire ?" 'The color varies from person to person It depends on who says the word. As to why the fire did what you wanted, that's a matter of practice. Most beginners have to spell out exactly what they want to happen As they gain more experience, it isn't as necessary. A true master could just say water and create something totally unrelated, like a gemstone. You wouldn't be able to understand how he had done it, but the master would have seen the connection betweenwater and the gem and would have used that as the focal point for his power. The practice is more of an art than anything else. What you did was extremely difficult." Saphira interrupted Eragon's thoughts .Brom is a magician! That 's how he was able to light the fire on the plains. He doesn ijust know about magic; he can use it himself! Eragon's eyes widened. You 're right! Ask him about this power, but be careful of what you say. It is unwise to trifle with those who have such abilities. If he is a wizard or sorcerer, who knows what his motives might have been for settling in Carvahall? Eragon kept that in mind as he said carefully "Saphira and I just realized something. You can use this magic, can't you? That's how you started the fire our first day on the plains." Brom inclined his head slightly. T am proficient to some degree." 'Then why didn't you fight the Urgals with it? In lact, I can think of many times when it would have been useful — you could have shielded us from the storm and kept the dirt out of our eyes." After refilling his pipe, Brom said, "Some simple reasons, really. I am not a Rider, which means that, even at your weakest moment, you are stronger than I. And I have outlived my youth; I'mnot as strong as I used to be. Every time I reach for magic, it gets a little harder." Eragon dropped his eyes, abashed. 'I'm sorry." "Don't be," said Brom as he shifted his arm "It happens to everyone." "Where did you learn to use magic?" 'That is one feet I'll keep to myself . . . Suffice it to say, it was in a remote area and from a very good teacher. I can, at the very least, pass on his lessons." Brom snuffed his pipe with a small rock. "I know that you have more questions, and I will answer them, but they must wait until morning." He leaned forward, eyes gleaming. 'Until then, I will say this to discourage any experiments: magic takes just as much energy as if you used your arms and back. That is why you felt tired after destroying the Urgals. And that is why I was angry. It was a dreadful risk on your part. If the magic had used more energy than was in your body, it would have killed you You should use magic only for tasks that can't be accomplished the mundane way." "How do you know if a spell will use all your energy?" asked Eragon, frightened. Brom raised his hands. "Most of the time you don't. That's why magicians have to know their limits well, and even then they are cautious. Once you commit to a task and release the magic, you can't pull it back, even if it's going to kill you I mean this as a warning: don't try anything until you've learned more. Now, enough of this for tonight." As they spread out their blankets, Saphira commented with satisfaction, We are becoming more powerful, Eragon, both of us. Soon no one will be able to stand in our way. Yes, but which way shall we choose? Whichever one we want, she said smugly, settling down for the night. MAGICISTHE SIMPLESTTHING W hy do you think those two Urgals were still in Yazuac?" asked Eragon, after they had been on the trail for a while. 'There doesn't seem to be any reason for them to have stayed behind." T suspect they deserted the main group to loot the town. What makes it odd is that, as far as I know, Urgals have gathered in force only two or three times in history. It's unsettling that they are doing it now." "Do you think the Ra'zac caused the attack?" T don't know. The best thing we can do is continue away from Yazuac at the fastest pace we can muster. Besides, this is the direction the Ra'zac went: south." Eragon agreed. "We still need provisions, however. Is there another town nearby?" Brom shook his head. "No, but Saphira can hunt for us if we must survive on meat alone. This swath of trees may look small to you, but there are plenty of animals in it. The river is the only source of water for many miles around, so most of the plains animals come here to drink. We won't starve." Eragon remained quiet, satisfied with Brom's answer. As they rode, loud birds darted around them, and the river rushed by peacefully. It was a noisy place, full of life and energy. Eragon asked, "How did that Urgal get you? Things were happening so fast, I didn't see." "Bad luck, really," grumbled Brom. "I was more than a match for him, so he kicked Snowfire. The idiot of a horse reared and threw me off balance. That was all the Urgal needed to give me this gash." He scratched his chin. "I suppose you're still wondering about this magic. The fact that you've discovered it presents a thorny problem. Few know it, but every Rider could use magic, though with differing strengths. They kept the ability secret, even at the height of their power, because it gave them an advantage over their enemies. Had everyone known about it, dealing with common people would have been difficult. Many think the king's magical powers come from the fact that he is a wizard or sorcerer. That's not true; it is because he's a Rider." "What's the difference? Doesn't the fact that I used magic make me a sorcerer?" "Not at all! A sorcerer, like a Shade, uses spirits to accomplish his will. That is totally different from your power. Nor does that make you a magician, whose powers come without the aid of spirits or a dragon. And you're certainly not a witch or wizard, who get their powers from various potions and spells. "Which brings me back to my original point: the problem you've presented. Young Riders like yourself were put through a strict regimen designed to strengthen their bodies and increase their mental control This regimen continued for many months, occasionally years, until the Riders were deemed responsible enough to handle magic. Up until then, not one student was told of his potential powers. If one of them discovered magic by accident, he or she was immediately taken away for private tutoring. It was rare for anyone to discover magic on his own," he inclined his head toward Eragon, "though they were never put under the same pressure you were." "Then how were they finally trained to use magic?" asked Eragon "I don't see how you could teach it to anyone. If you had tried to explain it to me two days ago, it wouldn't have made any sense." 'The students were presented with a series of pointless exercises designed to frustrate them For example, they were instructed to move piles of stones using only their feet, fill ever draining tubs full of water, and other impossibilities. After a time, they would get infuriated enough to use magic. Most of the time it succeeded. "What this means," Brom continued, "is that you will be disadvantaged if you ever meet an enemy who has received this training. There are still some alive who are that old: the king for one, not to mention the elves. Any one of those could tear you apart with ease." "What can I do, then?" 'There isn't time for formal instruction, but we can do much while we travel," said Brom T know many techniques you can practice that will give you strength and control, but you cannot gain the discipline the Riders had overnight. You," he looked at Eragon humorously, "will have to amass it on the run It will be hard in the beginning, but the rewards will be great. It may please you to know that no Rider your age ever used magic the way you did yesterday with those two Urgals." Eragon smiled at the praise. 'Thank you Does this language have a name?" Brom laughed. 'Yes, but no one knows it. It would be a word of incredible power, something by which you could control the entire language and those who use it. People have long searched for it, but no one has ever found it." T still don't understand how this magic works," said Eragon "Exactly how do I use it?" Brom looked astonished. T haven't made that clear?" "No." Brom took a deep breath and said, 'To work with magic, you must have a certain innate power, which is very rare among people nowadays. You also have to be able to summon this power at will. Once it is called upon, you have to use it or let it fade away. Understood? Now, if you wish to employ the power, you must utter the word or phrase of the ancient language that describes your intent. For example, if you hadn't saidbrisingr yesterday, nothing would have happened." "So I'm limited by my knowledge of this language?" "Exactly," crowed Brom "Also, while speaking it, it's impossible to practice deceit." Eragon shook his head. 'That can't be. People always lie. The sounds of the ancient words can't stop them from doing that." Brom cocked an eyebrow and said, "Fethrblaka, eka weohnata neiat haina ono. Bkka eom iet lam" A bird suddenly flitted from a branch and landed on his hand. It trilled lightly and looked at them with beady eyes. After a moment he said, 'Eitha," and it fluttered away. "How did you do that?" asked Eragon in wonder. T promised not to harm him He may not have known exactly what I meant, but in the language of power, the meaning of my words was evident. The bird trusted me because he knows what all animals do, that those who speak in that tongue are bound by their word." "And the elves speak this language?" 'Yes." "So they never lie?" "Not quite," admitted Brom 'They maintain that they don't, and in a way it's true, but they have perfected the art of saying one thing and meaning another. You never know exactly what their intent is, or if you have fathomed it correctly. Many times they only reveal part of the truth and withhold the rest. It takes a refined and subtle mind to deal with their culture." Eragon considered that. "What do personal names mean in this language? Do they give power over people?" Brom's eyes brightened with approval 'Yes, they do. Those who speak the language have two names. The first is for everyday use and has little authority. But the second is their true name and is shared with only a few trusted people. There was a time when no one concealed his true name, but this age isn't as kind. Whoever knows your true name gains enormous power over you It's like putting your life into another person's hands. Everyone has a hidden name, but few know what it is." "How do you find your true name?" asked Eragon "Elves instinctively know theirs. No one else has that gift. The human Riders usually went on quests to discover it — or found an elf who would tell them, which was rare, for elves don't distribute that knowledge freely," replied Brom "I'd like to know mine," Eragon said wistfully. Brom's brow darkened. "Be careful It can be a terrible knowledge. To know who you are without any delusions or sympathy is a moment of revelation that no one experiences unscathed. Some have been driven to madness by that stark reality. Most try to forget it. But as much as the name will give others power, so you may gain power over yourself, if the truth doesn't break you." And I'm sure that it would not,stated Saphira. "I still wish to know," said Eragon, determined. 'You are not easily dissuaded. That is good, for only the resolute find their identity, but I cannot help you with this. It is a search that you will have to undertake on your own" Brom moved his injured arm and grimaced uncomfortably. "Why can't you or I heal that with magic?" asked Eragon Brom blinked. "No reason — I just never considered it because it's beyond my strength. You could probably do it with the right word, but I don't want you to exhaust yourself" "I could save you a lot of trouble and pain," protested Eragon "I'll live with it," said Brom flatly. "Using magic to heal a wound takes just as much energy as it would to mend on its own I don't want you tired for the next few days. You shouldn't attempt such a difficult task yet." "Still, if it's possible to fix your arm, could I bring someone back from the dead?" The question surprised Brom, but he answered quickly, "Remember what I said about projects that will kill you? That is one of them Riders were forbidden to try to resurrect the dead, for their own safety. There is an abyss beyond life where magic means nothing. If you reach into it, your strength will flee and your soul will fade into darkness. Wizards, sorcerers, and Riders — all have failed and died on that threshold. Stick with what's possible — cuts, bruises, maybe some broken bones — but definitely not dead people." Eragon frowned. 'This is a lot more complex than I thought." "Exactly!" said Brom "And if you don't understand what you're doing, you'll try something too big and die." He twisted in his saddle and swooped down, grabbing a handful of pebbles from the ground. With effort, he righted himself, then discarded all but one of the rocks. "See this pebble?" 'Yes." 'Take it." Eragon did and stared at the unremarkable lump. It was dull black, smooth, and as large as the end of his thumb. There were countless stones like it on the trail. 'This is your training." Eragon looked back at him, confused. "I don't understand." "Of course you don't," said Brom impatiently. 'That's why I'm teaching you and not the other way around. Now stop talking or we'll never get anywhere. What I want you to do is lift the rock off your palm and hold it in the air for as long as you can The words you're going to use arestenr reisa . Say them" "Stenrreisa." "Good. Go ahead and try." Eragon focused sourly on the pebble, searching his mind for any hint of the energy that had burned in him the day before. The stone remained motionless as he stared at it, sweating and fiustrated.-ffow am I supposed to do this? Finally, he crossed his arms and snapped, 'This is impossible." "No," said Brom gruffly. "77/say when it's impossible or not. Fight for it! Don't give in this easily. Try again." Frowning, Eragon closed his eyes, setting aside all distracting thoughts. He took a deep breath and reached into the farthest comers of his consciousness, trying to find where his power resided. Searching, he found only thoughts and memories until he felt something different — a small bump that was a part of him and yet not of him Excited, he dug into it, seeking what it hid. He felt resistance, a barrier in his mind, but knew that the power lay on the other side. He tried to breach it, but it held firm before his efforts. Growing angry, Eragon drove into the barrier, ramming against it with all of his night until it shattered like a thin pane of glass, flooding his mind with a river of light. "Stenr reisa," he gasped. The pebble wobbled into the air over his faintly glowing palm He struggled to keep it floating, but the power slipped away and faded back behind the barrier. The pebble dropped to his hand with a soft plop, and his pafrnreturned to normal. He felt a little tired, but grinned fromhis success. "Not bad for your first time," said Brom "Why does my hand do that? It's like a little lantern" "No one's sure," Brom admitted. "The Riders always preferred to channel their power through whichever hand bore the gedwey ignasia. You can use your other palm, but it isn't as easy." He looked at Eragon for a minute. "I'll buy you some gloves at the next town, if it isn't gutted. You hide the mark pretty well on your own, but we don't want anyone to see it by accident. Besides, there may be times when you won't want the glow to alert an enemy." "Do you have a mark of your own?" "No. Only Riders have them," said Brom "Also, you should know that magic is affected by distance, just like an arrow or a spear. If you try to lift or move something a mile away, it'll take more energy than if you were closer. So if you see enemies racing after you from a league away, let them approach before using magic. Now, back to work! Try to lift the pebble again." "Again?" asked Eragon weakly, thinking of the effort it had taken to do it just once. 'Yes! And this time be quicker about it." They continued with the exercises throughout most of the day. When Eragon finally stopped, he was tired and ill-tempered. In those hours, he had come to hate the pebble and everything about it. He started to throw it away, but Brom said, 'Don't. Keep it." Eragon glared at him, then reluctantly tucked the stone into a pocket. "We're not done yet," warned Brom, "so don't get comfortable." He pointed at a small plant. 'This is caNsddelois ." From there on he instructed Eragon in the ancient language, giving him words to memorize, fromvoWr, a thin, straight stick, to the morning star^iiedail . That evening they sparred around the fire. Though Brom fought with his left hand, his skill was undiminished. The days followed the same pattern First, Eragon struggled to learn the ancient words and to manipulate the pebble. Then, in the evening, he trained against Brom with the fake swords. Eragon was in constant discomfort, but he gradually began to change, 