I became the greatest alchemyst of all time, sought after by kings and princes, by emperors and even the Pope himself. I discovered the secret of the philosopher’s stone hidden deep in that book of ancient magic: I learned how to turn ordinary metal into gold, how to change common stones into precious jewels. But more than this, much more, I found the recipe for a formulation of herbs and spells that keeps disease and death at bay. Perenelle and I became virtually immortal. He held up the torn pages in his hand. This is all that remains of the Codex. Dee and his kind have been seeking the Book of the Mage for centuries. Now they have it. And Perenelle, too, he added bitterly. But you said the Book is useless without these pages, Josh reminded him quickly. That is true. There is enough in the Book to keep Dee busy for centuries, but these pages are vital, Nick agreed. Dee will be coming back for them. There’s something else, though, isn’t there? Sophie asked quickly. Something more. She knew he was holding something back; adults always did. Their parents had taken months to tell Josh and her that they would be spending the summer in San Francisco. Nick glanced at her sharply, and once again she was reminded of the look Dee had given her earlier: there was something cold and inhuman in it. Yes...there is something more, he said hesitantly. Without the Book, Perenelle and I will age. The formulation for immortality must be brewed afresh every month. Within the full cycle of the moon, we will wither and die. And if we die, then the evil we have so long fought against will triumph. The Elder Race will claim this earth again. The Elder Race? Josh asked, his voice rising and cracking. He swallowed hard, conscious now that his heart was thumping in his chest. What had started out as just another ordinary Thursday afternoon had turned into something strange and terrible. He played a lot of computer games, read some fantasy novels, and in those, elder always meant ancient and dangerous. Elder, as in   old? Very old, Flamel agreed. You mean there are more like Dee, like you? Josh said, then winced as Sophie kicked his shins. Flamel turned to look at Josh, his colorless eyes now clouded with anger. There are others like Dee, yes, and others like me, too, but Dee and I are not alike. We were never alike, Flamel added bitterly. We chose to follow different paths, and his has led him down some very dark roads. He too is immortal, though even I am not sure how he retains his youth. But we are both human. He turned to the cash register, which was lying broken open on the floor, and started scooping out the money as he spoke. When he turned to look at the twins, they were startled by the grim expression on his face. Those whom Dee serves are not and never were from the race of man. Shoving the money into his pockets, he grabbed a battered leather jacket off the floor. We’ve got to get out of here. Where will you go? What will you do? Sophie asked. What about us? Josh finished the thought for her, as she often did for him. First I have to get you to a place of safety before Dee realizes that the pages are missing. Then I’ll go in search of Perenelle. The twins looked at each other. Why do you have to get us to a safe place? Sophie asked. We don’t know anything, Josh said. Once Dee discovers that the Book is incomplete, he will return for the missing pages. And I guarantee you, he will leave no witnesses on this earth. Josh started to laugh, but the sound died in his throat when he realized that his sister was not even smiling. You’re... He licked suddenly dry lips. You’re saying that he would kill us? Nicholas Flamel tilted his head to one side, considering. No, he said finally, not kill you. Josh heaved a sigh of relief. Believe me, Flamel continued. Dee can do much worse to you. Much worse. CHAPTER FIVE The twins stood on the sidewalk outside the bookshop, glass from the broken windows crunching under their feet, watching as Nick produced a key. But we can’t just leave, Sophie said firmly. Josh nodded. We’re not going anywhere. Nick Fleming-or Flamel, as they were beginning to think of him-turned the key in the lock of the bookshop and rattled the door. Within the shop, they could hear books sliding onto the floor. I really loved this shop, Flamel muttered. It reminded me of my very first job. He glanced at Sophie and Josh. You have no choice. If you want to survive the rest of the day, you have to leave now. Then he turned away, pulling on his battered leather jacket as he hurried across the road to The Coffee Cup. The twins looked at each other, then hurried after him. You’ve got keys to lock up? Sophie nodded. She produced the two keys on their Golden Gate Bridge key ring. Look, if Bernice comes back and finds the shop closed, she’ll probably call the police or something.... Good point, Flamel said. Leave a note, he told Sophie, something short-you had to leave suddenly, some sort of emergency, that sort of thing. Say that I accompanied you. Scribble it; make it look as if you left in a hurry. Are your parents still on that dig in Utah? The twins’ parents were archaeologists, currently on loan to the University of San Francisco. Sophie nodded. For another six weeks at least. We’re still staying with Aunt Agnes in Pacific Heights, Josh added. Aunt Agony. We can’t just disappear. She’ll be expecting us home for dinner, Sophie said. If we’re even five minutes late, she gets in a tizzy. Last week, when the trolley car broke down and we were an hour late, she’d already phoned our parents by the time we got there. Aunt Agnes was eighty-four, and although she drove the twins to distraction with her constant fussing, they were very fond of her. Then you’ll need to give her an excuse too, Flamel said bluntly, sweeping into the coffee shop with Sophie close behind him. Josh hesitated before stepping into the cool, sweet-smelling gloom of The Coffee Cup. He stood on the sidewalk, his backpack slung over his shoulder, looking up and down. If you ignored the sparkling glass littering the sidewalk in front of the bookshop, everything looked perfectly normal, an ordinary weekday afternoon. The street was still and silent, the air was heavy with just a hint of the ocean. Across the bay, beyond Fisherman’s Wharf, a ship’s horn sounded, the deep noise lost and lonely in the distance. Everything looked more or less as it had half an hour earlier. And yet... And yet it was not the same. It could never be the same again. In the last thirty minutes, Josh’s carefully ordered world had shifted and altered irrevocably. He was a normal high school sophomore, not too brilliant, but not stupid either. He played football, sang-badly-in his friend’s band, had a few girls he was interested in, but no real girlfriend yet. He played the occasional computer game, preferred first person shooters like Quake and Doom and Unreal Tournament, couldn’t handle the driving games and got lost in Myst. He loved The Simpsons and could quote chunks of episodes by heart, really liked Shrek, though he’d never admit it, thought the new Batman was all right and that X-Men was excellent. He even liked the new Superman, despite what other people said. Josh was ordinary. But ordinary teens did not find themselves in the middle of a battle between two incredibly ancient magicians. There was no magic in the world. Magic was movie special effects. Magic was stage shows with rabbits and doves and sometimes tigers, and David Copperfield sawing people in half and levitating over the audience. There was no such thing as real magic. But how then could he explain what had just happened in the bookshop? He had watched shelves turn to rotten wood, seen books dissolve into pulp, smelled the stink of rotten eggs from Dee’s spells and the cleaner scent of mint when Fleming-Flamel-worked his magic. Josh Newman shivered in the bright afternoon sunshine and ducked into The Coffee Cup, pulling open his backpack and reaching in for his battered laptop. He needed to use the café’s wireless Internet connection; he had names he wanted to look up: Doctor John Dee, Perenelle and especially Nicholas Flamel. Sophie scribbled a quick note on the back of a napkin, then chewed the end of the pencil as she read it. Mrs. Fleming unwell. Gas leak in the shop. Gone to hospital. Mr. Fleming with us. Everything else OK. Will phone later. When Bernice came back and found the shop closed just before the late-afternoon rush, she was not going to be happy. Sophie guessed that she might even lose her job. Sighing, she signed the note with a flourish that tore through the paper, and stuck it to the cash register. Nicholas Flamel peered over her shoulder and read it. That’s good, very good, and it explains why the bookshop is closed too. Flamel glanced over his shoulder to where Josh was tapping furiously at his keyboard. Let’s go! Just checking my mail, Josh muttered, powering off the machine and closing it. At a time like this? Sophie asked incredulously. Life goes on. E-mail stops for no man. He attempted a smile, and failed. Sophie grabbed her bag and vintage denim jacket, taking a last look around the coffee shop. She had the sudden thought that she would not be seeing it again for a long time, but that was ridiculous, of course. She turned out the lights, ushered her brother and Nick Fleming-Flamel-through the door ahead of her and hit the alarm. Then she pulled the door shut, turned the key in the lock and dropped the key chain through the letter box. Now what? she asked. Now we get some help and we hide until I figure out what to do with you both. Flamel smiled. We’re good at hiding; Perry and I have been doing it for more than half a millennium. What about Perry? Sophie asked. Will Dee...harm her? She’d come to know and like the tall, elegant woman over the past few weeks as she came into the coffee shop. She didn’t want anything to happen to her. Flamel shook his head. He can’t. She’s too powerful. I never studied the sorcerous arts, but Perry did. Right now all Dee can do is contain her, prevent her from using her powers. But in the next few days she will start to age and weaken. Possibly in a week, certainly within two weeks, he would be able to use his powers against her. Still, he’ll be cautious. He will keep her trapped behind Wards and Sigils.... Flamel saw the look of confusion on Sophie’s face. Magical barriers, he explained. He’ll only attack when he is sure of victory. But first he will try to discover the extent of her arcane knowledge. Dee’s search for knowledge was always his greatest strength...and his weakness. He absently patted his pockets, looking for something. My Perry can take care of herself. Remind me to tell you the story sometime of how she faced down a pair of Greek Lamiae. Sophie nodded, though she had no idea what Greek Lamiae were. As Flamel strode down the street, he found what he was looking for: a pair of small round sunglasses. He put them on, stuck his hands in the pockets of his leather jacket and began to whistle tunelessly, as if he hadn’t a care in the world. He glanced back over his shoulder. Well, come on. The twins looked at each other blankly, then hurried after him. I checked him out online, Josh muttered, looking quickly at his sister. So that’s what you were doing. I didn’t think e-mail could be that important. Everything he says checks out: he’s there on Wikipedia and there are nearly two hundred thousand results for him on Google. There are over ten million results for John Dee. Even Perenelle is there, and it mentions the book and everything. It even says that when he died, his grave was dug up by people searching for treasure and they found it empty-no body and no treasure. Apparently, his house is still standing in Paris. He sure doesn’t look like an immortal magician, Sophie murmured. I’m not sure I know what a magician looks like, Josh said quietly. The only magicians I know are Penn and Teller. I’m not a magician, Flamel said, without looking at them. I’m an alchemyst, a man of science, though perhaps not the science you would be familiar with. Sophie hurried to catch up. She reached out to touch his arm and slow him down, but a spark-like static electricity-snapped into her fingertips. Aaah! She jerked her hand back, fingertips tingling. Now what? I’m sorry, Flamel explained. That’s an aftereffect of the...well, what you would call magic. My aura-the electrical field that surrounds my body-is still charged. It’s just reacting when it hits your aura. He smiled, showing perfectly regular teeth. It also means you must have a powerful aura. What’s an aura? Flamel strode on a couple of steps down the sidewalk without answering, then turned to point to a window. The word TATTOO was picked out in fluorescent lighting. See there...see how there is a glow around the words? I see it. Sophie nodded, squinting slightly. Each letter was outlined in buzzing yellow light. Every human has a similar glow around their body. In the distant past, people could see it clearly and they named it the aura. It comes from the Greek word for breath. As humans evolved, most lost the ability to see the aura. Some still can, of course. Josh snorted derisively. Flamel glanced over his shoulder. It’s true. The aura has even been photographed by a Russian couple called the Kirlians. The electrical field surrounds every living organism. What does it look like? Sophie asked. Flamel tapped his finger on the shop window. Just like that: a glow around the body. Everyone’s aura is unique-different colors, different strengths. Some glow solidly, others pulse. Some appear around the edge of the body, other auras cloak the body like an envelope. You can tell a lot from a person’s aura: whether they are ill or unhappy, angry or frightened, for example. And you can see these auras? Sophie said. Flamel shook his head, surprising them. No, I cannot. Perry can, sometimes. I cannot. But I know how to channel and direct the energy. That’s what you were seeing earlier today: pure auric energy. I think I’d like to learn how to do that, Sophie said. Flamel glanced at her quickly. Be careful what you wish for. Every use of power has a cost. He held out his hand. Sophie and Josh crowded around on the quiet side street. Flamel’s hand was visibly trembling. And when Sophie looked into his face, she noticed that his eyes were bloodshot. When you use auric energy, you burn as many calories as if you had run a marathon. Think of it like draining a battery. I doubt I could have lasted very much longer against Dee back there. Is Dee more powerful that you? Flamel smiled grimly. Infinitely. Shoving his hands back into the pockets of his leather jacket, he continued down the street, Sophie and Josh now walking on either side of him. In the distance, the Golden Gate Bridge began to loom over the rooftops. Dee has spent the past five centuries developing his powers; I’ve spent that same time hiding mine, concentrating only on those few little things I needed to do to keep Perenelle and myself alive. Dee was always powerful, and I dread to think what he is capable of now. At the bottom of the hill he paused, looking left and right, then abruptly turned to the left and headed into California Street. There’ll be time for questions later. Right now, we have to hurry. Have you known Dee long? Josh persisted, determined to get some answers. Nicholas Flamel smiled grimly. John Dee was a mature man when I accepted him as my apprentice. I still took apprentices in those days, and so many of them went on to make me proud. I had visions of creating the next generation of alchemists, scientists, astronomers, astrologers and mathematicians: these would be the men and women who would create a new world. Dee was probably the finest student I ever had. So I suppose you could say that I’ve known him for nearly five hundred years-though our encounters have been somewhat sporadic over the past few decades. What turned him into your enemy? Sophie asked. Greed, jealousy...and the Codex, the Book of Abraham the Mage, Flamel answered. He’s coveted that for a long time, and now he has it. Not all of it, Josh reminded him. No, not all of it. Flamel smiled. He walked on, with the twins still on either side of him. When Dee was my apprentice in Paris, he found out about the Codex. One day I caught him attempting to steal it, and I knew then that he had allied himself with the Dark Elders. I refused to share its secrets with him and we had a bitter argument. That night he sent the first assassins after Perry and me. They were human and we dealt with them easily. The next night, the assassins were decidedly less than human. So Perry and I took the Book, gathered up our few belongings and fled Paris. He’s been chasing us ever since. They stopped at a cross light. A trio of British tourists was waiting for the light to change and Flamel fell silent, a quick glance at Sophie and Josh warning them to say nothing. The light changed and they crossed, the tourists heading to the right, Nicholas Flamel and the twins moving to the left. Where did you go when you left Paris? Josh asked. London, Flamel said shortly. Dee nearly caught us there in 1666, he continued. He loosed a Fire Elemental after us, a savage, mindless creature that almost devoured the city. History calls it the Great Fire. Sophie looked over at Josh. They had both heard of the Great Fire of London; they had learned about it in world history. She was surprised by how calm she felt: here she was, listening to a man who claimed to be more than five hundred years old, recounting historical events as if he had been there when they happened. And she believed him! Dee came dangerously close to capturing us in Paris in 1763, Flamel continued, and again in 1835, when we were in Rome working as booksellers, as it happens. That was always my favorite occupation, he added. He fell silent as they approached a group of Japanese tourists listening intently to their guide, who was standing beneath a bright yellow umbrella. When they were out of earshot, he continued, the events of more than a century and a half earlier obviously still fresh and bitter in his memory. We fled to Ireland, thinking he would never find us on that island at the edge of Europe. But he pursued us. He had managed to master the control of Wights then, and brought two over with him: the Disease Wight and the Hunger Wight, no doubt intending to set them on our trail. At some point he lost control of the creatures. Hunger and disease ravaged that poor land: a million people died in Ireland’s Great Famine in the 1840s. Nicholas Flamel’s face hardened into a mask. I doubt if Dee even paused to think about it. He always had nothing but contempt for humankind. Sophie glanced at her brother again. She could tell by the expression on his face that he was concentrating hard, trying to keep up with the deluge of information. She knew he would want to go online and check out some of the details. But he never caught you, she said to Flamel. Not until today. He shrugged and smiled sadly. It was inevitable, I suppose. Throughout the twentieth century, he kept getting closer. He was becoming more powerful, his organization was melding ancient magic and modern technology. Perry and I hid out in Newfoundland for a long time until he loosed Dire Wolves on us, and then we drifted from city to city, starting on the East Coast in New York in 1901 and gradually moving westward. I suppose it was only a matter of time before he caught up with us, he added. Cameras, videos, phones and the Internet make it so much harder to remain hidden nowadays. This book...this Codex he was looking for..., Josh began. The Book of Abraham the Mage, Flamel clarified. What’s so special about it? Nicholas Flamel stopped in the middle of the sidewalk so suddenly that the twins walked right past him. They turned and looked back. The rather ordinary-looking man spread his arms wide, as if he were about to take a bow. Look at me. Look at me! I am older than America. That is what is so special about the book. Flamel lowered his voice and continued urgently. But you know something-the secret of life eternal is probably the least of the secrets in the Codex. Sophie found herself slipping her hand into her brother’s. He squeezed lightly and she knew, without his saying a word, that he was as frightened as she was. With the Codex, Dee can set about changing the world. Changing it? Sophie’s voice was a raw whisper, and abruptly, the May air felt chilly. Changing it how? Josh demanded. Remaking it, Flamel said softly. Dee and the Dark Elders he serves will remake this world as it was in the unimaginably ancient past. And the only place for humans in it will be as slaves. Or food. CHAPTER SIX Although there were other ways he could have used to communicate, Dr. John Dee preferred this century’s method of choice: the cell phone. Settling back into the cool leather interior of the limousine, he flipped open the phone, pointed it to where Perenelle Flamel was slumped unconscious between two dripping Golems and took a quick picture. Madame Perenelle Flamel. His prisoner. Now, that was certainly something for the photo album. Dee keyed in a number and hit Send, then he tilted his head, looking at the graceful woman across from him. Capturing Perenelle had been an extraordinary stroke of good fortune, but he knew he’d only managed it because she’d used up so much energy destroying his Golem. He stroked his small triangular beard. He was going to have to make more Golems soon. He looked at the two opposite: in the brief time they had been outside in the early-afternoon sun, they had started to crack and melt. The big one on Perenelle’s left was dripping black river mud across the leather seat. Perhaps he would choose something other than Golems next time. The brutish creatures worked fine in damper climates, but were especially unsuited to a West Coast summer. He wondered if he still had the recipe to create a ghoul. It was Perenelle who presented him with a problem, however-a serious problem: he simply wasn’t sure how powerful she was. Dee had always been rather in awe of the tall, elegant Frenchwoman. When he’d first apprenticed himself to Nicholas Flamel, the Alchemyst, he’d made the mistake of underestimating her. He’d quickly found that Perenelle Flamel was at least as powerful as her husband-in fact, there were some areas in which she was even more powerful. Those traits that made Flamel such a brilliant alchemyst-his attention to detail, his knowledge of ancient languages, his infinite patience-made him a poor sorcerer and a terrible necromancer. He simply lacked the imaginative spark of pure visualization that was needed for that work. Perenelle, on the other hand, was one of the most powerful sorceresses he had ever encountered. Dee pulled off one of his gray leather gloves and dropped it onto the seat beside him. Leaning toward Perenelle, he dipped his finger in the puddle of mud dripping from one of the Golems and traced a curling symbol on the back of the woman’s left hand. Then he painted a mirror image of the symbol on her right hand. He dipped his hand in the sticky black mud again and was inscribing three wavy lines on her forehead when she suddenly opened her bright green eyes. Dee abruptly sat back in his seat. Madame Perenelle, I cannot tell you what a pleasure it is to see you again. Perry opened her mouth to speak, but no words would form. She tried to move, but not only were the Golems gripping her arms tightly, her muscles refused to obey. Ah, you must excuse me, but I’ve taken the liberty of placing you under a warding spell. A simple spell, but it will suffice until I can organize something more permanent. Dee smiled, but there was nothing humorous in his expression. His cell phone trilled, playing the theme from The X-Files, and he flipped it open. Excuse me, he said to Perenelle. You got the photo? Dee asked. Yes, I thought that would amuse you: the legendary Perenelle Flamel in our hands. Oh, I’m quite sure Nicholas will come after her. And we’ll be ready. This time he will not escape. Perenelle could clearly hear the cackle of laughter on the other end. Yes, of course. Dee reached into an inside pocket and took out the copper-bound book. We have the Codex. Finally. He began to turn the thick rough-edged pages as he spoke. His voice fell, and it was unclear whether he was talking to the caller or to himself. Ten thousand years of arcane knowledge in one place... Then his voice trailed away. The phone dropped from his hand and bounced across the floor of the car. At the back of the book, two pages were missing, roughly torn out. Dee closed his eyes and then licked his lips with a quick flicking movement of his tiny tongue. The boy, he rasped, the boy, when I pulled it from his hand. He opened his eyes and began to scan the preceding pages carefully. Maybe they’re not important..., he murmured, lips moving as he followed the shifting, moving words. He concentrated on the bright illuminated letters at the top of every page, which gave a clue to what followed. Then he stopped abruptly, clutching the book in trembling fingers. When he raised his head, his eyes were blazing. I’m missing the Final Summoning! he howled. Yellow sparks danced around his head, and the rear window behind him bloomed a spiderweb of white cracks. Tendrils of yellow-white power dripped from his teeth like saliva. Go back! he roared to the driver. Go back now. No, stop, cancel that order. Flamel’s no fool. They’ll be long gone. He snatched the phone off the floor and, avoiding Perenelle’s eyes, took a moment to compose himself. He drew in a deep shuddering breath and visibly calmed himself, then dialed. We have a slight problem, he said crisply into the phone, voice calm and unemotional. We seem to be missing a couple of pages from the back of the book. Nothing important, I’m sure. Perhaps you would do me a courtesy, he said very casually. You might convey to the Morrigan that I am in need of her services. Dee noticed that Perenelle’s eyes had widened in shock at the mention of the name. He grinned in delight. Tell her I need her special talents and particular skills. Then he snapped the phone shut and looked over at Perenelle Flamel. It would have been so much easier if they had just given me the Codex. Now the Morrigan is coming. And you know what that means. CHAPTER SEVEN Sophie spotted the rat first. The twins had grown up in New York and had spent most of their summers in California, so encountering a rat was nothing new. Living in San Francisco, a port city, one quickly got used to seeing the creatures, especially early in the morning and late at night, when they came out of the shadows and sewers. Sophie wasn’t especially frightened of them, though like everyone else she had heard the horror stories, urban legends and FOAF-friend of a friend-stories about the scavengers. She knew they were mostly harmless unless cornered; she thought she remembered reading somewhere that they could jump to great heights. She’d also read an article in the New York Times Sunday magazine that said that there were as many rats in the United States as there were people. But this rat was different. Sleek and black, rather than the usual filthy brown, it crouched, unmoving, at the mouth of the alleyway, and Sophie could have sworn that its eyes were bright red. And watching them. Maybe it was an escaped pet? Ah, you’ve noticed, Flamel murmured, catching her arm, urging her forward. We’re being watched. Who? Josh asked, confused, turning quickly, expecting to see Dee’s long black car cruising down the street. But there was no sign of any car, and no one seemed to be paying them any special attention. Where?