Sophie and Josh followed Scathach through Hekate’s house. The twins were aware now of movement in the shadows, floorboards creaking underfoot, wooden walls popping and cracking as if the house were moving, shifting, growing. They were also conscious that the voices, the screams and shouts of earlier, had fallen silent. Scathach led them to an empty circular room where Nicholas Flamel was waiting. He stood facing away from them, hands clasped tightly against the small of his back, and stared out into the shadowed night. The only light in the room came from the huge moon now starting to dip toward the horizon. One side of the room was bathed in harsh silver-white light, the other was in darkness. Scatty crossed the room to stand beside the Alchemyst. She folded her arms across her chest and turned to the twins, her face an expressionless mask. You could have been killed, Flamel said very softly, without turning around. Or worse. You can’t keep us here, Josh said quickly, his voice sounding too loud in the silence. We’re not your prisoners. The Alchemyst glanced over his shoulder. He was wearing his tiny round glasses and, in the gloom, his eyes were hidden behind the silver circles. No, you’re not, he said very quietly, his French accent suddenly pronounced. You are the prisoners of circumstance, of coincidence and chance...if you believe in such things. I don’t, Scathach muttered. Neither do I, Nicholas said, turning around. He took off his glasses and squeezed the bridge of his nose. There were dark circles under his pale eyes, and his lips were pinched in a thin line. We are all prisoners of a sort here---prisoners of circumstance and events. Nearly seven hundred years ago, I bought a battered secondhand book written in an incomprehensible language. That day I too became a prisoner, trapped as securely as if I were behind bars. Two months ago, Josh, you should never have asked me for a job, and you, Sophie, should never have started working in The Coffee Cup. But you did, and because you made those decisions you are both standing here with me tonight. He paused and glanced at Scathach. Of course, there is a school of thought that suggests that you were fated to take the jobs, to meet Perenelle and me and to come on this adventure. Scathach nodded. Destiny, she said. You’re saying that we have no free will, Sophie asked, that all this was meant to happen? She shook her head. I don’t, for one minute, believe that. The very idea went against everything she believed; the idea that the future could be foretold was simply ludicrous. Neither do I, Josh said defiantly. And yet, Flamel said very softly, what if I were to tell you that the Book of the Mage---a book written more than ten thousand years ago---speaks of you? That’s impossible, Josh blurted, terrified by the implications. Ha! Nicholas Flamel spread his arms wide. And is this not impossible? Tonight you encountered the nathair, the winged guardians of Hekate’s realm. You heard their voices in your heads. Are they not impossible? And the Torc Allta---are they not equally impossible? These are creatures that have no right to exist outside of myth. And what about us? Scathach asked. Nicholas is nearly seven hundred years old, and I am so old I have seen empires rise and fall. Are we not equally impossible? Neither Josh nor Sophie could deny that. Nicholas stepped forward and put a hand on Josh’s and Sophie’s shoulders. He was no taller than they were and looked directly into their eyes. You must accept that you are trapped in this impossible world. If you leave, you will bring destruction onto your family and friends, and in all probability, you will bring about your own deaths. Besides, Scathach added bitterly, if you’re mentioned in the Book, then you’re supposed to be here. The twins looked from Scatty to Flamel. He nodded. It’s true. The book is full of prophecies---some of which have certainly come true, others which may yet come to pass. But it does specifically mention ‘the two that are one.’  And you believe...? Sophie whispered. Yes, I believe you may be the prophecy. In fact, I am convinced of it. Scathach stepped forward to stand beside Flamel. Which means that you are suddenly much more important---not only to us, but also to Dee and the Dark Elders. Why? Josh licked dry lips. Why are we so important? The Alchemyst glanced at Scatty for support. She nodded. Tell them. They need to know. The twins looked from Scatty back to the Alchemyst. There was a sense that what he was about to tell them was of immense importance. Sophie slipped her hand into her brother’s, and he squeezed her fingers tightly. The Codex prophesies that the two that are one will come either to save or to destroy the world. What do you mean, either save or destroy? Josh demanded. It’s got to be one or the other, right? The word used in the Codex is similar to an ancient Babylonian symbol that can mean either thing, Flamel explained. Actually, I’ve always suspected that it means that one of you has the potential to save the world, while the other has the power to destroy it. Sophie nudged her brother in the ribs. That would be you. Flamel stepped back from the twins. In a couple of hours, when Hekate arises, I will ask her to Awaken your magical potential. I believe she will do it; I hope and pray that she does, he added fervently. Then we will leave. But where are we going? Josh asked at the same time that Sophie said, Will Hekate not allow us to stay here? I’m hoping some of the other Elders or immortal humans might be persuaded to help train you. And no, we cannot stay here. Dee and the Morrigan have contacted one of the most fearsome of the Elders: Bastet. The Egyptian cat goddess? Sophie asked. Flamel blinked in surprise. I’m impressed. Our parents are archaeologists, remember? While other children were being read bedtime stories, our parents told us myths and legends. The Alchemyst nodded. Even as we speak, Bastet and the Morrigan are gathering their forces for an all-out attack on Hekate’s Shadowrealm. I suspected that they would try and attack during the hours of darkness, when Hekate is sleeping, but so far there is no sign of them, and it will be dawn soon. I’m sure they know that they will only get one chance, and they need all their forces in place before they attack. At the moment, they believe we are still ignorant of their intentions; more importantly, they do not know that we are aware of Bastet’s involvement. But we will be ready for them. How do we know? Sophie asked. Perenelle told me, Flamel said, and waved away the next obvious question. She is a resourceful woman, she enlisted a disembodied spirit to pass on a message to me. A disembodied spirit? Sophie said. You mean like a ghost? She realized that now it was quite easy to believe in ghosts. Just so, Flamel said. What will happen if they attack here? I mean, what kind of attack are we talking about? Josh asked. Flamel looked at Scatty. I was not alive the last time beings of the Elder Races warred with one another. I was, Scatty said glumly. The vast majority of humani will not even know anything is happening. She shrugged. But the release of magical energies in the Shadowrealms will certainly have an effect on the climate and local geology: there may be earthquakes, a tornado or two, hurricanes and rain, lots of rain. And I really hate the rain, she added. One of the reasons I left Hibernia. There must be something we can do, Sophie said. We have to warn people. And what form would that warning take? Flamel asked. That there is about to be a magical battle that may cause earthquakes and flooding? Not something you can phone in to your local news or weather station, is it? We have to--- No, we don’t, the Alchemyst said firmly. We have to get you and the pages from the Book away from here. What about Hekate? Josh asked. Will she be able to defend herself? Against Dee and the Morrigan, yes. But with Bastet as their ally, I simply don’t know, Scatty answered. I don’t know how powerful the goddess is. More powerful than you can imagine. They all turned toward the door, where a girl who looked no older than eleven stood blinking and yawning widely. She rubbed a hand against her bright yellow eyes and stared at them, then smiled, her teeth startlingly white against her jet-black skin. She was wearing a short togalike robe of the same iridescent material that the crone Hekate had worn, but this time the dress was streaked with golds and greens. Her ice-white hair curled down to her shoulders. The Alchemyst bowed. Good morning. I did not think you rose before the dawn. How could I sleep with all this activity? Hekate demanded. The house awakened me. The house..., Josh began. The house, Hekate said flatly, is alive. There were a dozen comments Josh could have made, but remembering the green slime from the previous night, he wisely decided to keep his mouth shut. I understand that the Morrigan and my Elder sister Bastet are planning an assault on my Shadowrealm, the girl said grimly. Nicholas glanced quickly at Scathach, who shifted her shoulders slightly in a shrug. She had no idea how Hekate knew. I am sure you understand that everything that happens in this house, every word said or whispered---or even thought, Hekate added, glancing sidelong at Josh, I hear. The girl smiled and, in that instant, looked like the older versions of herself. The smiled curled her lips, but did not light up her eyes. She walked into the room, and Sophie noticed that as she moved, the house reacted to her presence. Where she had stood in the doorway, green shoots had sprouted, and the lintel and doorsill had blossomed tiny green flowers. The Goddess with Three Faces stopped before Nicholas Flamel and looked up into his troubled eyes. I would have preferred that you not come here. I would have preferred that you not bring trouble into my life. I would have preferred not to go to battle with my sister and my niece. And I would most certainly have preferred not to be forced to choose sides. Scathach folded her arms across her chest and regarded the goddess grimly. You never did like to choose sides, Hekate---no wonder you have three faces. Sophie was watching Hekate as Scathach spoke, and for an instant she glimpsed something dark and immeasurably old behind the girl’s eyes. I have survived the millennia because I heeded my own counsel, Hekate snapped. But I have chosen sides when the struggle was worth it. And now, Nicholas Flamel said very softly, I think it is time to choose again. Only you can decide, however: is this a worthy struggle? Hekate ignored the question and spun around to face Sophie and Josh. Her tiny hand moved in the air and immediately the auras around the twins flared to silver and golden light. She tilted her head to one side, looking at them, watching the silver bubbles crawling along the cocoon that enveloped Sophie, and following the tracery of golden veins that moved up and down Josh’s aura. You may be right, she said eventually, these may indeed be the ones spoken of in the cursed Codex. It has been many centuries since I’ve encountered auras so pure. They possess incredible untapped potential. Flamel nodded. If I had the time, I would take them to be properly trained, gradually Awaken their dormant powers...but events have conspired against me, and time is that one precious commodity I do not have. It is within your power to unlock their potential. You can do something in an instant that it would normally take years to do. Hekate glanced over her shoulder at the Alchemyst. And there are good reasons why it should take many years, she said dismissively. The humani barely use their senses. Yet you are proposing to Awaken these two to their full potential. I will not do it: the sensory overload could destroy them, drive them mad. But--- Flamel began. I will not do it. She turned back to the twins. What he is asking me to do could kill you---if you are lucky, she said, and then turned and swept from the room, leaving little grassy footprints in her wake. CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO The twins were speechless for a moment. Then Josh began, What did she mean...? But Nicholas hurried past him, following Hekate out into the hallway. She’s exaggerating, he called back over his shoulder. Trying to frighten you. Well, it worked, Josh muttered. He looked at Scathach, but she turned her back and walked into the garden. Hey, he called, hurrying after her, come back. I’ve got questions. He felt a quick surge of anger; he was tired of being treated like a child. He---and his sister---deserved some answers. Josh, Sophie warned. But her brother darted past her and reached for Scathach’s shoulder. His fingers never even touched her. Suddenly, he was caught, twisted, turned and then spun through the air. He hit the ground hard enough to drive the breath from his lungs, and he found himself staring down the length of Scathach’s sword, the tip of which she held rock steady between his eyes. When she spoke, her voice was little more than a whisper. Last night you insulted a goddess of the Elder Race; today you’ve managed to irritate one of the Next Generation---and it’s not even dawn yet, she added. The Warrior Maid sheathed her sword and looked over at a stunned Sophie. She hadn’t even seen Scathach move. Is he always like this? Scatty asked. Like what? Sophie asked. Foolish, ill-advised, reckless...? Shall I go on? No need. And yes, he’s usually like this. Sometimes worse. When they were growing up, she used to tease Josh that he got all the doing genes, whereas she got the thinking genes. Her brother was both impulsive and reckless, but to be fair, she thought, he was also loyal and trustworthy. Scathach pulled Josh to his feet. If you continue at this rate, you’ll not last long in this world. I just wanted to ask you a few questions. You’re lucky. A couple of centuries ago, I probably would have killed you. I used to have a bit of a temper, she admitted, but I’ve been working on my self-control. Josh rubbed the small of his back. If Scathach had smashed him down on the stones, he could really have been hurt, but he recognized that she’d been careful to drop him onto the grass and moss. That felt like a judo throw, he said shakily, attempting to sound casual and change the subject. Something like that... Where did you learn judo, anyway? I didn’t learn judo. I created the distant ancestor of most of the martial arts that are studied today, the red-haired warrior said, bright green eyes flashing wickedly. In fact, it would do neither of you any harm if I were to show you a few simple moves. I think we can do better than simple, Josh said. We studied tae kwon do for two years when our parents were teaching in Chicago, and we did a year of karate in New York...or was that Boston? You created judo? Sophie asked, keeping her voice carefully neutral. No, Kano Jigoro created modern judo, but he based his fighting system on jujitsu, which is related to aikido, which evolved around the fourteenth century. I believe I was in Japan around then. All martial arts have a common root. And that’s me, Scatty said modestly. Come, if you know a little tae kwon do and karate, that’s useful. Let me show you some basic moves while we’re waiting for Nicholas. Where is he? Sophie asked, looking back over her shoulder at the house. What was going on in there? Is he asking Hekate to Awaken our magical potential? He is, Scatty affirmed. But Hekate said that could kill us! Josh said in alarm. He was beginning to suspect that Flamel’s agenda was about more than just protecting him and his sister. The Alchemyst was up to something. She was only guessing, Scatty said. She’s always been a bit of a drama queen. Then Nicholas is sure we’re in no danger? Josh said. No, he’s not really sure. Scatty smiled. But believe me, you are in danger. The only difference is if Hekate Awakens you, then you’ll be in grave danger.           Nicholas Flamel followed Hekate through the house. The young woman’s fingers trailed along the walls, leaving streaks of bright wood touched with leaves and flowers in her wake. I need your help, Hekate. I cannot do this alone, he called after her. The goddess ignored him. She turned down a long, straight corridor and darted ahead. Her feet left little puddles of green grass that grew even as Flamel hurried after her. By the time he was halfway down the corridor it was knee high, then waist high, and suddenly, the entire corridor was covered in the tall, razor-sharp grass. Its blades whispered softly together, sounds that might almost have been words. Nicholas Flamel allowed a little of his growing anger to seep into his aura. Closing his right hand into a fist, he suddenly splayed his fingers and the air was touched with the rich, tart odor of mint. The grass directly ahead of him flattened as if it had been hit with a strong wind, and the Alchemyst was just in time to see the young woman step into a room set slightly apart from the rest of the house. If he had delayed a moment longer, he would have walked right past the opening. Enough of these games, Flamel snapped, stepping into the room. Hekate spun to face him. She had aged in the few moments she had spent running down the corridor. She now looked about fifteen. Her face was set in an ugly mask and her yellow eyes were bitter. How dare you speak to me that way! She raised her hands threateningly. You know what I can do to you. You would not dare, Flamel said with a calm that he did not feel. And why not? Hekate asked, surprised. She was not used to being contradicted. Because I am the Guardian of the Book. The book you lost... I am also the Guardian who appears in the prophecies in the Book, Flamel snapped. The next-to-last Guardian, he added. The twins also appear in the book. You say you knew Abraham---you know then how accurate his prophecies and foretellings were. He was often wrong, Hekate muttered. As Guardian, I am asking you to do something I believe to be essential to the survival of not only the Elder Race, but humani, too: I want you to Awaken the twins’ magical potential. It could kill them, the goddess stated flatly. She didn’t really care if the humani cattle lived or died. That is a possibility, Flamel admitted, feeling something icy settle in the pit of his stomach, but if you do not help us, then their deaths are a certainty. Hekate turned and walked to the window. Across the sloping lawn, Scathach was demonstrating a series of punches for the twins. They were smoothly mimicking her moves. Flamel went to join Hekate by the window. What a world we live in, he commented, sighing, when everything---possibly even the continuance of the human race---lies on the shoulders of those teenagers. You know why the humani triumphed and the Elder Race was ultimately banished? Hekate asked suddenly. Because of iron, wasn’t it? Yes, because of iron. We survived the Fall of Danu Talis, we survived the Flood, and the Age of Ice. And then, about three thousand years ago, a single metalworker, who had been crafting in bronze, began to experiment in the new metal. He was just one man---and yet he managed to wipe out an entire race of people and a way of life. Great change always comes down to the actions of a single person. Hekate fell silent, watching the twins punch and kick next to Scathach. Silver and gold. The rarest of all auras, she muttered, and for a single heartbeat, the auras bloomed around the twins. If I do this and it kills them, will you be able to live with it on your conscience? I am old now, so old, Nicholas said very softly. Do you know how many friends I’ve buried over the centuries? And did you feel their loss? There was a note of genuine curiosity in Hekate’s voice. Every one. Do you still? Yes. Every day. The goddess reached out and placed her hand on his shoulder. Then you are still human, Nicholas Flamel. The day you stop caring is the day you become like Dee and his kind. She turned back to the garden and looked at the twins. They were both trying, and failing, to land blows on Scathach, who was ducking and weaving, though not moving from the one spot. From the distance they looked like three ordinary teenagers practicing a new dance, but Hekate knew that there was nothing ordinary about any of them. I’ll do it, she said eventually, I’ll Awaken their powers. The rest is up to you. You will have to train them. Flamel bowed his head so she would not see the tears in his eyes. If the twins survived the Awakening, then there was a chance, albeit a slim one, that he would get to see Perenelle again. Tell me, he began, then coughed to clear his throat. The man who discovered how to process iron---that blacksmith three thousand years ago. What happened to him? I killed him, Hekate said, her yellow eyes wide and innocent. His actions destroyed us. What else could I do? But it was too late. The secret of iron had been introduced into the world. Flamel looked at the twins, watched Josh haul his sister to her feet, watched her hook a leg behind his and drop him to the ground. Their laughter hung bright and clear in the predawn air. He prayed that they were not too late this time. CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE The cats of San Francisco left the city in the dead of night. Singly and in pairs, feral and scarred street cats, plump, smooth-coated house cats, all shapes, every size, purebred and mixed, long-haired and short-haired, they moved through the shadows in a silent feline wave. They surged across the bridges, boiled through alleys, raced through the tunnels beneath the streets, leapt across roofs. All heading north. They darted past shocked and terrified late-night revelers, skirted rats and mice without stopping to feed, ignored birds’ nests. And although they moved in complete silence, their passage was marked by an extraordinary sound. That night the city of San Francisco echoed with the primeval howls of a hundred thousand dogs. Dr. John Dee was unhappy. And just a little bit frightened. It was all very well to talk about attacking Hekate in her own Shadowrealm, but it was another thing entirely to sit at the entrance to her invisible kingdom and watch the cats and birds arrive, called by their respective mistresses, Bastet and the Morrigan. What could those small creatures do against the ancient magic of Hekate of the Elder Race? Dee sat in a huge black Hummer alongside Senuhet, the man who acted as Bastet’s servant. Neither of them had spoken during the short flight in Dee’s private jet from L.A. to San Francisco earlier, though there were a thousand questions Dee wanted to ask the older man. Over the years he had come to recognize that the servants of the Dark Elders---like himself---did not like to be questioned. They had reached the entrance to Hekate’s Shadowrealm close to two o’clock, and were in time to see the first of the Morrigan’s creatures arriving. The birds swooped in from the north and east in long, dark flocks, the only sound the snapping of their wings, and settled in the trees in Mill Valley, gathering so thickly that some of the branches cracked beneath the strain. Over the next few hours, the cats arrived. They poured out of the darkness in a never-ending stream of fur, and then stopped---all facing the hidden opening to the Shadowrealm. Dee looked out his car window: he couldn’t see the ground. It was covered, as far as he could see in every direction, with cats. Finally, just as the eastern horizon began to pale with salmon-colored light, Senuhet lifted a small black statue from a bag he wore around his neck and placed it on the dashboard. It was a beautifully carved Egyptian cat no bigger than his little finger. It is time, he said softly. The eyes of the black statue glowed red. She is coming, Senuhet said. Why didn’t we attack earlier, when Hekate slept? Dee asked. Despite several hundred years of study about the Dark Elders, he realized that, in truth, he knew very little. But that gave him some comfort, because he realized that they knew equally little about humans. Senuhet waved his hand, gesturing to the gathered birds and cats. We needed our allies, he said shortly. Dee nodded. He guessed that Bastet was even now moving through the various Shadowrealms that bordered the human world. The Elder Race’s aversion to iron meant that certain modern conveniences---like cars and planes---were off limits to them. His thin lips curled in a humorless smile; that was why they needed people like him and Senuhet to act as their agents. He felt, rather than saw, the birds move in the trees: half a million---maybe more---heads turned to the west. He followed their gaze, looking toward the darkest spot in the sky. At first, he could see nothing, but then a shape appeared high in the heavens, noticeable only because it blotted out the stars. The Morrigan was coming. Dee knew that at the heart of every legend there is a grain of truth. Looking up into the night sky, watching the pale-faced creature appear out of the west, her feathered cloak spread behind her like enormous wings, Dee believed he knew where the legends of the Nosferatu vampires originated. Over the course of his long life, he had met vampires---real ones---and none of them were as terrifying as the Crow Goddess. The Morrigan settled to the ground directly in front of the Hummer, cats scattering at the last moment as she folded her cloak and landed. In the gloom, only the white oval of her face was visible; her eyes were as black as night, looking like holes burned in paper. Then the cats growled, a low rumbling that trembled through the very air, and Bastet stepped out of the shadows. The Cat Goddess was wearing the white cotton robes of an Egyptian princess and holding a spear that was as tall as she was. She strode through the sea of cats, which parted before her and closed in behind. Towering over the Morrigan, she bowed deeply to the Crow Goddess. Niece, is it time? she purred. It is, the Morrigan replied, returning the bow. Shrugging back her cloak, she revealed a longbow strapped across her shoulders. She unslung the bow and notched an arrow from the quiver at her hip. Then, turning as one, the two Dark Elders raced toward the seemingly impenetrable hedge and leapt through. The cats and birds flowed after them. Now it begins, Senuhet said gleefully, gathering his weapons---two curved Egyptian bronze swords---and climbing out of the car. Or ends, Dee thought, but he kept his fears to himself. FRIDAY, 1st June CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR Josh stood at the edge of the ancient forest with his sister and watched a trio of tiny winged creatures that looked astonishingly like dragons whirl and dance through the first shafts of dawn sunlight. Josh glanced at her, then looked quickly away. I don’t want you to do this, he said quickly. Sophie laid her hand on her brother’s arm. Why not? she said. She moved in front of her twin, forcing him to look at her. Over his left shoulder, in front of the entrance to the incredible Yggdrasill, she could see Flamel, Scatty and Hekate watching them. All around, thousands of Torc Allta, both in their human and wereboar forms, were scurrying about, preparing for battle. The boars wore plates of leather armor across their haunches and backs, and the human Torc Allta were carrying bronze spears and swords. Huge flocks of nathair swooped across the skies and the bushes, and tall grasses were alive with unseen crawling, slithering, scuttling creatures. Guards were taking up positions all around the Yggdrasill, clambering out onto the huge branches, standing guard with bows and spears in every window. Sophie looked into her brother’s bright blue eyes. She could see herself reflected there, and she abruptly realized that his eyes were magnified behind unshed tears. She reached for him, but he caught her hand and squeezed her fingers gently. I don’t want anything to happen to you, he said simply. Sophie nodded, unwilling to trust herself to speak. She felt exactly the same way about her twin. Three of the enormous pterosaur-like nathair flew overhead, the downdraft of their wings sending plumes of dust along the ground below. Neither Sophie nor Josh looked up. Nicholas said that there are risks, Josh continued, but Hekate said that it’s dangerous, possibly even deadly. I don’t want you to go through with this Awakening in case something goes wrong, he finished quickly. We have to do it. Nicholas said--- I’m not entirely sure I trust him, Josh interrupted. I have a feeling he’s up to something. He’s too eager for Hekate to Awaken our powers despite the dangers. He said it’s our only chance, Sophie persisted. Yesterday, he said he had to get us away from the shop to keep us safe...now, all of a sudden, we have to be trained so that we can protect ourselves from Dee and these Dark Elders. Trust me, Sophie, Nicholas Flamel is playing his own game. Sophie’s gaze drifted to the Alchemyst. She’d known him for a couple of months, and she remembered writing in her blog that she thought he was cool. Of course, now she realized that she didn’t really know him at all. The man she’d thought of as Nick Fleming was an imposter. A lie. Flamel was staring intently at her, and for the briefest of moments, she imagined that he knew what they were talking about. Both of us don’t have to go through this Awakening, Josh continued. Let me do it. Again, Sophie looked into his eyes. And how do you think I’d feel if something happened to you? This time it was Josh who found he couldn’t speak. The idea that something terrible could happen to his sister had only occurred to him a little while before. But the very thought of it terrified him. Sophie took her brother’s hands in hers. From the moment we were born, we’ve done everything together, she said, her voice low and serious. And with Mom and Dad away so much, it’s really always been just you and me. You’ve always looked after me, I’ve always looked out for you. I’m not going to allow you to go through this...process by yourself. We’ll do this---just like we’ve done everything else---together. Josh looked long and hard at his sister. Are you sure? he asked. He was beginning to see a new Sophie. I’ve never been more sure. They both knew what remained unsaid: neither wanted to be left behind if anything happened during the Awakening. Josh finally nodded. He then squeezed his sister’s hand and they both turned to face the Alchemyst, Hekate and Scatty. We’re ready, the twins said.